We should not ban homeopathy.
Recognize that this debate is about not whether or not we should regulate homeopathy, or not whether or not homeopathy in the way that it can advertise itself should be regulated, we think on opposition that that the that that is a totally reasonable thing to have to do, to make sure that people that are going to sell their goods and say that it is medical must advertise it as homeopathic rather than medically tested.
We think that's reasonable, and we think that regulating the ability for them to advertise the effects of this is also reasonable.
But this is a debate about whether or not we're going to ban homeopathy altogether, which means whether or not we are going to allow individuals to choose what they're going to put into their bodies and what they're going to do in in as far as they can medically treat themselves, and we think that that is a step too far for the government and for society, so two things in this speech.
The first is why the right to bodily autonomy is tantamount to all other rights, and the second is about why this is an alternative option to pharmaceuticals which end up being abused in a large number of instances.
First, on rights.
We think that the right to bodily autonomy is the most important right that any person can hold.
The reason for this is that in order to access any other right you might have, your right to freedom of speech, your right to travel, your right to use your money as you see fit, any other right, these are all all these pre requiry right to bodily autonomy.
The ability to do what you want to do with your body, to put into your body what you would like to put into your body, to move your body in the way you see fit, and to treat your body as you see fit.
We think that this is the ultimate right that one can have, because despite the individual station in society, despite their monetary gifts, or despite their stature in society, we think that the one thing that everyone should have control over is how they're going to use their biologically given body.
Not only is that because it is something that allows them to express their agency, but also because the body is also what one is.
If one is not able to use their body as they see fit, it is not allowing someone to fully express who they are.
Why do we think that homeopathy is a perfectly legitimate thing to choose to put into your body?
Well firstly, we think that the placebo effect often does have some sort of benefits that individuals can gain from it.
When you when people who are taking homeopathic medicine do this, they believe that it's going to have some sort of a benefit.
People don't just do this because they think it's a fun idea, they think it's going to be something that allows them to be treated.
And when one believes that they're going to be treated, one's body tends to try to work in a way that mimics that belief.
So we think that the placebo effect's a benefit that homeopathic drugs can have, but most importantly, we think that individuals have the ability to make this decision for themselves, and once advertising has been regulated to such a way that people can't just blatantly lie about what they're drugs do, we think that when someone has the choice between that and say, pharmaceuticals, it's reasonable choice to make.
Why is this the case?
Firstly, pharmaceuticals are incredibly expensive.
The process to try and get a drug regulated, to get it tested, to go through all these stages of testing, is in fact quite expensive in and of itself, it can take up to a decade or more.
Given that this is the case, we think that because something is homeopathic does not by necessity mean that it's not going to have medical benefits, just means that it hasn't gone through this testing, and this also means that these drugs are going to be, on balance, far less expensive, which means that individuals, especially poor individuals, can afford to get treatment.
But secondly and importantly, pharmaceuticals are often abused by the people that take them, and also abused in how they're prescribed.
We think that pharmaceuticals, things like pain killers, are often lead to addictions to opiates and things like this, and we think that it's reasonable for an individual not to want to take this risk with their body, to choose instead to try an alternative natural source of healing, rather than these types of things that have been shown to lead to addiction, that cost an immense amount of money, and that ultimately can cause drastic side effects that have true harms on an individual.
Because of this trade off, we think that homeopathy is a reasonable choice to make, and we certainly don't think that you should ban homeopathy.