We should abolish attorney client privilege.
So the over arching argument that we're going to make in this round is that the purpose of the justice system should be defined truth above all else above above ensuring that defendants have an absolute right to defend themselves, but they have all the protections that are guaranteed to them.
We think that truth should be the priority of the justice system.
So why is this the case?
Let us outline that and let us outline why you cannot allow attorney client privilege under this justification.
So when a crime has been committed the state we think should prioritize finding the truth and rendering a verdict in line with the facts because when a crime has been committed the the there are three actors that need to be considered the defendant, the victim, and of course society who has suffered a harm as a proxy of the as a proxy of the victim.
We think that people trust the justice system when it shows a vigorous devotion to the truth when it doesn't allow certain people to hide behind fancy lawyers and fancy attorneys while other people are thrown into jail without the same type of privilege and recognize that attorney client privilege is a disparate privilege.
There's a disparity in quality of lawyers in the status quo which means that that privilege is most beneficial to those with money, to those that can afford to have a dedicated attorney that's going to take their case, that's going to build their defense for them where as many people that enter the justice system go through go through a system with public defenders where they have maybe fifteen minutes with the public defender before they go into a court, before they have to enter a plea.
This means that this type of privilege is massively disparate and in the eyes of many people shows the skewing of the justice system in favor of the rich and in favor of the powerful and just because this is how common law has worked, this doesn't mean that it's suddenly just just that's this is an is a fallacy to believe that because this is the way that this has always been done that it must continue to be done this way.
We think it's important to uphold the right of the defendant but recognize that attorney client privilege insures that someone can tell their attorney yes, I'm guilty, I did this.
I acted in a way that violated the law and if you were to reveal that information to anyone else that person could be subpoenaed and you could be brought and that person could be brought forward in court and have to tell people and have to tell the jury that you told them this information.
Just because someone is your attorney doesn't mean that you should be able to reveal that information and if you are guilty there is the victim that should be considered as more important than your ability to try and hide from the truth, hide the truth from the justice system.
We think that in those instances the victim outweighs the outweighs the offender and and their need for some sort of closure, their need for some sort of punishment outweighs the defendant's ability to simply tell their attorney yes, without any shadow of a doubt, I did it.
We would also say that you can still plan a valid defense without this type of privilege.
You can get information that shows innocence.
You don't have to disclose if some if you are guilty if you are a client in this situation and if you are guilty, if there's evidence that you are guilty, the prosecution would need to disclose that evidence to the defense anyway which means that the defense can still plan their whole case knowing full well that you are guilty and try to build up a defense as to why you still shouldn't be put in jail or to try and obscure those facts.
You still have a full ability to mount a robust defense without this type of privilege.
It's just the way that you're going to go about forming that defense changes.
But like we said, when you prioritize truth above all else in the justice system, people have more faith in the justice system.
The justice system is dramatically less skewed towards those that have the financial ability to hide the truth far easier than those without the financial ability to do so and you get a system in which victims and those that have been the victim of crime are more likely to find justice.
For these reasons, we should abolish the attorney client privilege.