Urbanization has done more good than harm.
When we talk about urbanization we're talking about the movement of people into cities and overall larger population grow and a larger proportion of the population being located in cities and towns becoming larger and forming into cities themselves.
That's what this this that's what this debate is going to be focused on.
We think that urbanization is wonderful for the ability for people to raise themselves up, for individuals to be able to communicate with each other better, to advocate for themselves better, and have better resources.
So the first thing we're going to talk about is resource allocation and why we think that resource allocation has been tremendously beneficial under more urbanized systems.
The first reason for this is that when you have larger populations living in the same area, infrastructure projects that otherwise wouldn't have been possible are now easier because you have a larger base of tax revenue to draw from and this means that you can create more developed infrastructure projects such as public transportation, public sewage systems, all these things in a much easier way when you can better when you're better able to tax a big base of the population.
So when you have smaller cities and towns, it's very difficult to pay for say a subway system or a bus system or to pay for public works or public parks or other things that are generally utile to the public because there's just not as much money to draw from.
But when you have something like a train system, a subway, these are things that people can use over and over again.
They have maintenance costs but they're generally large up-front costs and this means that these are things that large portions of this population can use and it's a lower cost because you can draw from a larger range of people, but you can also get more diversity of these sorts of things.
So why are these good?
We think that this means that firstly, in regards to public transportation, given that climate change is occurring in that CO two emissions in large part come from people commuting to work every day, we think public transportation is tremendous, especially because urbanization means that people are living and working in the same area.
So not only is their commute shorter but it also means that they're largely taking public transportation which is much more CO two efficient than people driving on the highway from multiple hours to get to their work.
We also think that urbanization has led to immense economic growth that is very good for both employees and employers.
What urbanization allows for employers is that when you move into an urban area you already have a built-in large portion or a large pool of labor to draw from.
It means that not only if you have a high school job, like some sort of tech industry or low skill jobs such as moving restaurant chain into the area, you have people that are both low and high school laborers living in these areas side-by-side and people that are consuming these products both low-skill and high-skill product, service product, and new technologies as well as more run-of-the-mill products.
What this means is that you have a base, an attractive base, to both draw your labor from and to sell your products into, which means that you have a self-reinforcing economic cycle in these areas and as more people are drawn into urban areas, there's even larger labor to draw from.
Which means that laborers are better able to unionize because there's a large amount of them that can enforce a large amount of pressure onto companies but it also means that companies are able to draw people from these pools and they're able run much more efficiently than ever before.
We think that you also get better jobs in these areas and when you get a conglomeration of many similar jobs in these areas, like how san francisco's become a tech hub, you actually get better development in those specific sectors themselves which means that you get better jobs and better economic growth because you have urbanization, but you also have more people with access to these things because you don't need to be wealthy in order to be able to get a job in these areas because you don't need to worry about a commute or anything like that.
It means that you're better able to access the labor market when you're in these urban areas because the labor market is so huge and because jobs are so bountiful in comparison to rural and other smaller, less densely populated areas.
Which we think means that people on the ground are able to live better lives and additionally, we think that socialization is actually better because you have more people that you can meet face-to-face in more niche communities.
It means that when you have a large portion of the population, it's almost as if you bring the internet to life in that niche communities are able to thrive because you've been able to organize and you don't need to have a hundred, two hundred people living in a small town that are all interested in one sort of community.
But rather you can draw that same number people out from thousands and thousands and you can actually get better socialization in that regard.
So because of the economic growth and benefit to the average person, we that that urbanization has certainly done more good than its done harm.