We should not subsidize recycling.
When we're talking about subsidizing recycling, we think that it's mainly two big things that would be done: first, it's a system of increasing the amount of investment in municipalities to be able to improve their recycling operations and second, it is likely some sort of funding or reimbursement scheme for people that actually do recycle, so maybe a tax break or something like that.
So, let's talk about the principle of subsidy to start.
Because recognize that a subsidy is simply a use of public funds whether it comes from giving tax breaks, which means that other people have to bear a higher burden of the tax base, or it's actually giving out public funds specifically.
Those public funds were taken without the consent of the people they were taken from.
Citizens cannot choose to opt out of the tax system.
If I don't want to pay my taxes this year, that's too bad.
The government is going to take that money from me anyway, even if I need that money to do things like support myself financially and to improve myself.
Given that this is essentially a coercive scheme, that taxation is tantamount to theft, we need to find some sort of way to justify that taxation.
And the reason that we're able to justify that taxation is because the tax money that we get goes to public goods.
It goes to things that are going to essentially help all of us.
So when I pay money into the tax base, and the municipality that I live in then uses that money to improve roads and to give better public transportation, that's something that everyone can utilize.
It impacts everyone evenly.
So, we think that in order for a subsidy to be just, in order for that taxation to be fair, two things need to be the case.
First, there needs to be a large public good.
So the vast majority there needs to be some sort of good accumulating not just to businesses or individuals, but to the public in general.
And secondly, we think this needs to be accessible to many people.
If you're giving out a subsidy for something that most people are unable to access, even if it's some sort of a public good that's being done, most people are never going to gain the benefits of that public good and therefore, we think that therefore, we think that you need to have some sort of accessibility for that subsidy.
Finally, it's important to recognize that for a subsidy to be useful generally, it needs to lead to some sort of meaningful change.
If I subsidize something that is already being done in bulk, then there's then that subsidy is just a loss of revenue that I otherwise could have been using to then do things like improve infrastructure, or improve education, or healthcare, or all these other things.
So when it comes to recycling, we think that the status quo solves and that for the vast majority of instances, there's not going to be this sort of meaningful change.
Most municipalities are able to fund their own recycling operations, and recycling is standard through most municipalities in the united states right now.
And, this is already a system that's accessible to many people.
They'll curbside pickup.
You don't even need to drive the recycling to a plant, the municipality will come get it for you.
So, what do we think that the subsidy actually leads to?
Are more people going to recycle because of some sort of a small tax break?
Well we think if people aren't recycling in the status quo, even though there's no loss to them to do so, then they're likely the type of people that don't care that much about helping the environment, that don't actually buy into the process of recycling generally.
And additionally, we think that there's unlikely to given that there's unlikely to be any sort of large change with recycling and there's a tradeoff for these public goods or these public funds, we think it would be preferable to put that funding into areas that are lacking it, places like education where an increase in in investment can really lead to tangible, large-scale changes, unlike what we're likely to see here in recycling.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize recycling.