We should disband unesco.
Unesco is a united nations organization that's built around the idea of fostering education, global peace, global justice, and preserving our combined cultural heritage.
We think that this is a fairly noble purpose, but the problem with unesco is not in its purpose but in its execution, and for these reasons we believe it should be disbanded.
So the two main arguments we're going to make is that unesco is overly politicized in the status quo and can't fulfill its job, and the second is that it has a bad organizational history.
So, on the politicization: the purpose of unesco is to foster this type of international cooperation.
However, in order to do this effectively, in order to really bring countries together and share our cultural heritage, it must provide a fair and balanced balanced view of all parties.
Over its history, unesco has made decisions that have been highly politicized, including perceived antagonism toward israel and preferences for china.
These are things that are highly politicized acts in the world involving highly politicized countries, countries like israel and china that are major figures on the world stage and have a real impact on how alliances view unesco and how many countries view unesco.
These types of actions create an environment in which the larger work of the body becomes diluted.
Awarding grants and world heritage sites world heritage site designations become a political act rather than a cultural and collective human act, and it becomes something that's perceived by governments as something that's being done for political reasons.
It becomes a talking point of governments and of government officials to say that their country is either being antagonized or their enemy is being given unfair gains, amd these are things that we think undermine the entire purpose of unesco as an organization.
It further it further separates countries rather than bringing them together.
This type of body can exist.
One that fulfills the duty of unesco we believe can exist, but preserving unesco precludes any sort of resources or political will to create such an alternative body.
Dissolving unesco means it's much more likely that an improve body comes to exist in the future.
And this is something that we think is vital, given the importance of unesco's mission and the overall failure of unesco to do it in the status quo.
So, let's also talk about the bad organizational history of unesco.
Unesco has a history of corruption dating back throughout the organization's history.
From the very inception of the organization, things like grants going to particular countries or overpaying executives has been going on throughout the organization.
This is something that is getting money from the united nations from organization countries, and these this organization is spending large portions of that money that's meant to be furthering their mission statement, that's meant to be doing good in the world, and is instead going to executive compensation and going to croniest croniest areas where grant money is spent inefficiently.
This inefficient spending outweighs the limited benefits because combined with the fact that there could be an alternative organization using this money, we think domestically this money could be used in a better way if it's used more efficiently.
Money is a single it's it's a sunk money cannot be spent in multiple ways multiple times, and given that it is a fungible asset, we think it would be preferable if this asset was used in developing countries internally rather than trying to give it to an organization that has, over its history, done things like have corrupt practices and overpaid executives wildly.
We think that unesco and its mission are important, but we think it simply fails in the status quo.
And for these reasons, we should disband unesco.