-ot abolish the needle exchange programs.
So in this debate we're gonna make two main arguments: the first is about public health and the second is the principle behind drug use and drug criminalization and why we think it's problematic and ultimately is not a reason to abolish the needle exchange program.
Okay, so firstly on public health.
We would say that no matter what a person does as far as drugs they choose to use, or what they do with their body, or how they interact with the world around them, that person is still first and foremost a citizen of the state in which they're governed and because they are part of that state we think the state has overriding obligations to them, as a human being and as a citizen, that must be upheld.
And we think that one of those obligations is to their health and their well being.
So even if someone does something like uses drugs, we don't think that this means that they are now excluded from the social contract that governs interactions between people and the state, we don't think that that means that they should be condemned to the health disasters that can come without the needle exchange program.
So let's walk through what some of these are and why to abolish this program would be incredibly problematic for public health.
So firstly the reason the needle exchange program exists is because when people don't have these types of programs they resort, they don't, you know, stop using drugs all of a sudden because they don't have clean needles, they just continue to use the same needles that they've been using or they you take needles from other people and these needles end up oftentimes having diseases attached to them.
So one common disease as the transfer of HIV is very common between people that are using drugs and use needles and share needles between each other.
Now, these diseases that spread through needle use are incredibly like problematic.
These aren't just simple diseases, short term illnesses, these are diseases that can have long term and major health ramifications in a person's life and could ultimately lead to death if not if not treated properly, and drug users of those that are probably most likely to not get the treatment that they need in order to stay healthy to begin with.
And these these diseases don't just impact the drug users themselves.
Firstly when they end up going to the hospital, when they end up going to get their health, when they end up going somewhere to try and get treatment, that bill is almost always passed on to the public.
And the reason for this is because drug users, especially people that are getting HIV from their heroine needles, these are people that oftentimes don't have health insurance but the hospitals can't refuse to treat them in these life threatening situations, and therefore that bill gets passed on to the state.
The other thing that's important to recognize is that if someone uses a uses a needle that is unclean, and they get HIV from it, they can spread this disease to other people in their interactions.
Innocent people that chose to have sexual relations with these drug users, people that clearly have no harm, have brought no harm upon themselves, that have done nothing to warrant that type of harm I'm now going to be harmed because we take away these programs.
All these people are a part of the social contract.
All these people are citizens of the state the state should keep public health is a primary concern because of the massive ramifications, especially in regards to needle exchange programs.
So the second thing we wanna talk about briefly is that we would say that all the arguments that are made about these people are heroin users, or these people are drug users, they're breaking the law and therefore they don't deserve to have this type of treatment, they don't deserve to have this, this leads them to use drugs more often, firstly the fact that you can get a clean needle is not a motivating factor to do heroin for any normal person.
Normal people don't just suddenly decide: " oh well, now that I can get the needle, that is the meaningful tipping point for me using heroin ".
We just don't think that people behave that way, and furthermore we would say that those prohibition, most of these prohibitions are overwhelmingly targeted at marginalized communities in the status quo, and overwhelmingly harm those communities and unjust manner.
We don't think that these types of justifications mean that people need to be condemned to some severe diseases such as HIV.
We don't think that abolishing needle exchange programs will lower the rate of drug use, we think it'll only increase the rate of disease from drug use.
And for these reasons we should not abolish needle exchange programs.