We should lower at the age of consent.
So we think it's very important to set up a model in this debate.
So we have one particular model in mind.
The way that we would lower the age of consent is to follow a model that's similar to the state of new jersey in which any one of the age so the status quo in many states and many federal districts the age of consent eighteen so we would lower it to a baseline of sixteen.
Anyone at the age of sixteen may consent to intercourse with anyone older than them and for people between the ages of fourteen and sixteen so people that are adolescents but in high school and often aren't sexually active, we would ensure that those people from fourteen to sixteen may have intercourse with anyone that is up to four years older than them.
So if you're age fourteen you can have sex with anyone up to the age of eighteen as long as they aren't four years and one day.
We recognize that this is arbitrary but we think it leaves room for people who are young and sexually active to be sexually active with one another without having to face criminal charges that could last that could be on their record for a very long time.
We would also because there is some discrepancy between laws regulating hetero and homosexual acts we would say that this is going to be the same across the board whether or not your straight or gay or what have you.
Okay two reasons why we think we should lower the age of consent.
The first is that it's crucial to recognize that the age of consent is arbitrary.
The point of the age of consent itself doesn't have to do with whether or not we think eighteen year olds or seventeen year olds or sixteen year olds are the most mature and the most ready to be able to have sexual intercourse but it's trying to draw an arbitrary line so that we can avoid people being abused, so we can avoid people that are below a certain age being abused by those that might have influence or control over them.
We think our model does just that.
We think that we allow to maximize autonomy for individuals who have already likely been in in an atmosphere in high school where they have been around consenting individuals and may have been in a sexualized environment.
It allows them to express and learn about themselves sexually.
We think that at age sixteen people are very likely to be sexually active and it's not unreasonable for them to follow their biological urges and do these types of things.
We also think that when you set this age limit of four years for people that are on the younger side in high school, it insures that people won't face the type of abuse that we're concerned with.
They won't face the possibility of adults who have immense amount of power course of ability over them to coerce them into having sex and of course if it were to happen this would still be made illegal.
Given that this is an arbitrary line, we think that we allow for young relationships and we allow for maximum autonomy.
We think that what the state should be focusing on is ensuring that people are about to maximize their freedom and maximize their individual decision making and we think that lowering the age of consent to one in which people are still being sexually active, recognize that people below the age of eighteen have sex all the time they're sexually active all the time and these are actions that could end up on a record for them that could give them that could result in them being left out of jobs or other opportunities in the future just for being a normal high schooler.
So we think that this is simply unfair and that because of that, we need to lower the age of consent.
We think that you ought defer to autonomy.
We think that's and so sixteen is a line that we think is also fair given what sixteen allows you to do.
In the united states at sixteen you can leave high school, you can work, you can live on your own.
You're allowed to in a sense be a full adult.
While you can't do certain things like drink and vote, these are still ways in which you are allowed to live an autonomous life and we think that what falls in line with an autonomous life is being able to explore yourself and explore your sexuality and so we think sixteen, while it is certainly an arbitrary line, is a fair line.
We think that unless you entrust people with their sexual development they can never learn to flourish and be comfortable in their sexual in their sexuality and be comfortable with themselves in a sexual sense and we think that at age sixteen if we're gonna allow people to have the possibility of being independent in all these other areas, there they they should also be autonomous in their ability to choose what their sexual life is going to be like.
Given that the age of consent is arbitrary and lowering it would fall more in line with the lines of autonomy that we grant to people in the status quo in other spheres, we believe we should lower the age of consent.