We should subsidize higher education.
We believe that there is a right to education that can only be fulfilled by not only allowing for primary education but also for free university and secondary education for all.
We think that this right exist for a couple of reasons: the most important reason that this right exists is because of what the obligation to state are to the people and why the state exist generally in the first place.
We think that the state exist in order to provide for equal access to opportunity for its citizens.
Individuals are born into the circumstances that are outside of their control, meaning that random chance determines many factors that will place them and determine what opportunities they have such as the money that their family has that they're born into, their race, their gender, and other such factors that impede them in both the way that people treat them through biases but also through just the ability that they have to get a good education, good tutoring, access to jobs, things of the like.
So what do we think a free secondary education does?
Free secondary education allows for all people to have access not just to low paying service sector jobs but also to higher paying specialized jobs such as those in growing tech industries, in medical industries, legal industries, things that allow individuals to exceed what their ordinary circumstances would have allowed.
Because many people have the ability to be educated many people do well in high school and primary education but don't have the opportunity to go further because they don't have the means to pay for that and while colleges to subsidize individuals we think that this isn't enough to ensure that the most people can go and it simply doesn't do enough level playing for as the state is obliged to do.
Further, even if even if you don't believe that there's a right to education per se at this level, we think that there's no meaningful distinction between the delineation we make between the education we give to elementary primary and secondary education and that education that you would achieve from a university.
There's no major distinction between the educational barriers or the educational benefits that come between these two parts, except that there's a greater benefit the more educated one is, because of the job opportunities available to them.
Given that this is the case, we don't think there's any reasonable distinction to be drawn between the two and if we believe as we do in a society that does fund these types of education, that you should fund primary and secondary education, there's no meaningful reason why you ought not continue to fund , university education.
Furthermore, there's an important benefit to society that comes from these things and namely that when you allow people to exceed what their expectations would be otherwise you break cycles of poverty that are incredibly costly to the state.
People that live in these impoverished situations benefit from state welfare programs for a long period of time, which is a major expenditure for states that would be avoided if more individuals were able to break out of the cycle of poverty that are dictated by their circumstances when they're born.
Given that higher education allows you to get off of things like food stamps programs, medic-aid programs, free health and social service programs, we think that the state in the long run will save money by investing money now into people's futures so that they can build for themselves the lives tey want.
Also, why do we think that this is going to be an affordable program?
So we think that there are many ways of doing this in which you can be more affordable than simply paying for every single person to go to high-school or go to college.
We think that there are ways to ensure that when people can afford to pay they do pay so that they subsidize other individuals, but that for, say, state universities that education is made free to anyone, or the amount of money that they can feasibly pay is the only amount of money that they need to pay so that all need is met by the state universities in in essence subsidizing these things to a great extent.
You can also make state universities free and provide for these money, for these institutions through money that's spent in other ways such as money that goes to these, social welfare services and things like that, especially because in the long run those services are going to be less costly to the state.
So may cost a little bit of money in the in the current term, you may have to take on deficits but that's worth in the long run.
You can also subsidize these schools up front in a way that's called pay it forward, where individuals are able to go to university for free and for a certain amount of years after they graduate pay a certain percentage of their income, maybe ten percent of their income each month, to the university that they went to so that they never have to take on a debt burden that they can't afford, they never take on massive student loans to go to university and they can go to the university of their choosing without having to pay money in the instances where they have no job, they have no disposable income, they're the least able to pay for their college university experience.
And they can go on to the future and actually get proper value based on how much money that degree served them.
And for these reasons we think that we should subsidize college education.