We should not end the use of mass surveillance.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think that mass surveillance is a crucial part of the modern state, especially in the internet era, especially in the era of so many potential threats that are arising in our day-to-day lives.
The first argument we're going to make is that we believe the state has a fundamental obligation to protect its citizens.
When people give into the state, when they give up their autonomy and give the state the authority that it has over their lives, they do so with the fundamental expectation that the state will allow them to live a life that they can meaningfully enjoy, that they can prosper in, one that is free, and one that gives them opportunity.
But we think that any sort of freedoms that you associate with this good life, any sort of benefits that you can derive from the state, they all rest on the idea that your safety, your protection comes first.
If you do not protect your citizens' well-being, if you do not protect their lives, then none of those other freedoms can be accessed.
Which means that we think that, on a scale, when you look at all of the things that the state is obligated to do, we think that an obligation to protect its citizens is the first and foremost responsibility that a state can have.
When a state is making policy, when a state is deciding what it should and should not do, especially in areas of mass surveillance that are so gray, we think that it is important that the state ultimately defer to protection, ultimately doing what is most likely to keep their citizens safe, because this is what allows the most citizens to prosper, and it makes sure that even one life is not lost when otherwise you could have done something meaningful to protect that life.
So, we think that mass surveillance is also crucial in modern day, because it's the it has an immense ability to find unknown threats.
So, in a modern in in a in a prototypical type of investigation, you need to search evidence, you need to search a you need to find some sort of a clue that can lead you towards the direction of a crime, but more importantly, when you're talking about the types of things like terrorist activity that you're trying to prevent before it happens, it's incredibly difficult to do this without some sort of surveillance technology.
So we think that surveillance itself is perfectly fine.
What mass surveillance allows you to do is it allows you to use those same methods, those same methods of surveying, on suspicious actors to gather data, to get information about people.
And it's not like mass surveillance works in a way where someone is constantly looking at your private information.
It uses machine intelligence and machine learning to try and pick out trends and behavior that could raise red flags, and we think that that is something that the state should certainly be doing with today's opposition, with today's public vitriol, with the rise of of extremism without throughout the world.
We think that terrorism is a threat that is at a all-time an all-time high and is something that mass surveillance can do to keep citizens safe.
Finally, we just want to highlight the fact that the average person has nothing to fear from mass surveillance.
As I stated earlier, it's not like there's files on each and every individual person that exists stored on the government's databases.
That's just so much data to comb through and so much information.
Rather, the way that this tends to work is to be a system that uses intelligence and uses trends in behavior in order to pick out suspicious actors.
So, yes, the government is spying on you in this way, if you want to put it so crudely, but it's also doing everything it can to protect you with very little risk to your actual privacy, in a way that you can fundamentally understand.
For these reasons, we should not end the use of mass surveillance.