We should subsidize massive open online courses.
So these types of courses are often taught in a college classroom or taught by a university professor but they're published online.
There's informational material that's published with these courses so that you can follow along.
It often allows you to take classes along with the students in the class and we think that these are hugely beneficial and definitely deserve a subsidy.
So we're going to talk about how why lifelong learning is not only incredibly beneficial but is going to be necessary for the current generation.
Let's talk about the modern world: the modern world is changing at an incredibly fast pace.
This is the fastest rate of human expansion of exploration, of growth, in the history of humankind and we have grown more in the last decade as a species than we did for thousands of years from our inception to the industrial revolution.
In the past one could get an education or learn a trade and they can work off of that education and that baseline training until their retirement, until their death, but the same isn't true today.
As the world changes the the job market changes.
More technology becomes available that makes old human jobs obsolete and also spurs the creation of new jobs based around that technology.
We think that if you do not have a world in which people are constantly creating new skills for themselves, in which they're constantly learning and becoming more informed, you fall massively behind and we think these courses provide crucial information.
Three things: first, a framing in an understanding of where the world is headed technologically and socially.
Taking courses isn't just about building skills but is about building an understanding of the world that we currently live in, the potential of the worlds that we could live in in the future, and it allows people to plan for the future, it allows them to not only decide which future they want to live in and know the possibilities, but to actually plan based on what's what is likely to happen ahead of time and to become more informed as an individual.
It also provides well taught education that instills new skills that can be applied to new markets.
It insures that as jobs and the requirements of jobs change, people do not themselves become obsolete.
If I'm working in a particular field in which technology is moving in, but I can learn enough to use that technology to my advantage, to leverage that technology to open new career paths, then I am not going to end up unemployed.
I'm not going to end up in a situation which I can't afford to feed myself.
We think that when you when you amplify this from the individual level to the societal level it becomes clear why this is good for society.
It's better to learn on the job rather than to lose a job and have to enter the unemployment market.
If you learn while you're employed you don't need to worry about the stress and time scale of acquiring a new skill at the same time as having to find a new job entirely and also feed yourself, feed your family, all of those things.
It's also good just for the labor market of the state to have many dynamic workers because as more workers that are skillful become available more technological jobs migrate to the united states because they require those type of skill levels in order to actually do the labor that they need to have done.
Having dynamic workers means businesses are more able to fill new roles and it also means that you're likely to have higher wage workers because you're not just some person that can be easily replaced but you you are a dynamic individual back into a number of roles.
We think it's the job of the government to protect the well being of its citizens and the well being of its citizens are intrinsically tied to their financial and economic well being.
In a changing economic environment, in a changing job market, new skills are crucial and massive open online courses are an immense benefit in learning how to change with the world.
We think this is a fantastic use of a subsidy given the trade offs that are possible and for these reasons we should subsidize massive open online courses.