We should not subsidize agriculture.
In this round, we're talking about whether or not agricultural businesses deserve to have subsidies by the federal or state governments and our side would of course say that no subsidy should be given under any circumstances to these businesses.
So we have two main arguments today.
The first of which is about market inefficiencies and the second is a comparative.
So firstly, on market inefficiencies, recognize that developing countries in the status quo have a massive market advantage on producing agriculture and goods.
The reason for this is that the regulations in the agricultural industry are simply much less than that in developed countries like the united states and there are also wage laws that exists in the united states that set minimum wages that simply don't exist elsewhere.
The congregation of different sorts of regulations and wage regulations that exist in the united states means that developing nations will always be at a competitive advantage within a free market in producing agriculture.
So given that this is the case when we subsidize agriculture we're simply trying to ensure that a domestic product can continue to be produced even though we can get equally good equally valuable and worthwhile products from other areas.
So we're simply doing this to ensure that domestic companies can maintain their business.
The problem with this is that while many people have an understanding of agriculture that small farmers and mom and dad farms trying to build up their farms and make a living, this simply isn't how agriculture works in the status quo in america and other developed nations.
The way that agriculture actually works in the status quo is a system in which big agro and big farm businesses have control over many many smaller farms but still it's a multi it's a large corporations that control and produce the vast majority of food within the united states.
What this means is that unlike small farms that are just trying to get by in a very large very competitive market there are actually just a few large corporations that compete with each other and because of this have the ability to set prices at rates that are far higher than the market value and for other reasons simply do not meet these subsidies.
These are very large corporations that can afford to take losses and can afford to lose these subsidies because even if they do lose these subsidies they'll simply shed some of their overweight size and be able to continue to move on and yes well while this means that some people are likely to lose their jobs at the cost of these subsidies, recognize that the vast majority of the subsidy money doesn't go to lowering agricultural prices or doesn't go to the small farmers themselves it just goes into the pockets of big agra.
Given this is a case we don't think that it's fair to use to use public funds in order to support these big businesses.
These big businesses are largely able to stand up on their own and because of this, we think it's just wrong to ensure that they survive.
We also think that allowing these big businesses to be held up on their own to be held afloat by the government staggers innovation in other fields things like vertical farming and other methods of of GMO crop production and other types of farming gets shut out when these large business are able to keep control of the market because they're subsidized to such an extent that they're always going to be profitable and they're always going to be able to beat out other competitors.
So given that this is the case, the final thing we want to talk about is just market is just about comparative loss.
Recognize that subsidies are spending are an expenditure of public funds which means that if you're going to subsidize the agriculture business that's money that you couldn't be putting into other public goods such as education, infrastructure development, or subsidies and other areas where for example there is innovation going on like the green technology area.
Given that this is the case we would say that we shouldn't subsidize agricultural businesses and big agro at the cost of these myriad of other things that we could be doing, things that serve a very clear public good and we can just get the same type goods at a cheaper price from other areas.
We would say that investing in things like education and things like clean technology have much more abundant public goods attached to them and therefore it's a more fair use of the goods of the money that we get that the government collects through taxation that is essentially taken from the public.
If it's being taken from the public it should be used to benefit the public and we simply don't think that upholding large agricultural businesses, multibillion dollar corporations with subsidies is where this money should go to and for this reason we should not subsidize agriculture.