We should ban alternative medicine.
When we say that we would ban alternative medicine, what we mean is that any type of medical procedure, any type of medication, any type of thing that treats an illness, that isn't scientifically tested, and shown to be effective, hasn't gone through the rigorous testing process, that exists in the status quo, we wouldn't allow it to be put on the market.
We would prohibit people from selling these things, we would ban individuals from profiting off these things, all these things we would make illegal, and we would assign hefty fines and punishments, if people were to prohibit these things.
So, we think that this is principally an argument about when the government is allowed to paternalize, and we think that there are three main reasons why the government can paternalize, and that for each of those reasons, alternative medicine fits the bill of something that needs to be prohibited, of something in which a ban is justified.
The first reason why we why the government paternalizes is because there is often an asymmetry of information, between consumers and producers, that causes a harm for the general public.
We think that is clearly the case in the case of alternative medicine.
People simply don't know, that the types of things they're doing are not scientifically proven, or they don't comprehend the significant impact of the life choice they're making.
So, we think that there are two ways in which people don't have the information that would allow them to be informed decision makers.
The first is one of simply a lack of factual information, and the second is a lack of rational information, that allows people to make informed decisions, because if someone were to have the understanding of what it means to take medicine, that simply does not work, they would understand the grave consequences of doing such things, and we think, clearly in these instances, people can be paternalized, because they haven't been given the right education,the right understanding, that society is obligated to give them.
The second reason is when there is a dire public concern.
So, when there is an immense health consequence, we think that there is a benefit to society that can be gained, that's so great that paternzalization is okay.
Recognize, that the use of alternative medicine hinders healthcare, and that people are only going to get more sick.
And the problem with this is, that when people get more and more sick, it doesn't mean that they just linger until eventually they either get better or die, this cost gets passed down onto the public.
So, there are two ways in which this has a dire public consequence, the first is that when people are sick, and they're able to spread diseases, you're more likely to get a number of people to be harmed, by the by alternative medicine, not just those that make the decision to use alternative medicine, and this means that there's severe health risk to the people in your society, that aren't making this decision.
The other is, that when people end up in hospitals, because they haven't been treated, when illnesses get worse and worse, and so medical costs pile up, and people can't afford to pay those medical costs, those costs get passed on to the taxpayer, which means that people end up paying more in their taxes, more for healthcare, than they otherwise would, if the government had paternalized.
The final reason is when there's a low impact on one self actualization, and recognize that using alternative medicine is not a bold life choice, that is an indication of who you are as a human being, that expresses your authenticity, your your your self in a meaningful way.
We think it is simply one of many decisions that are minute in the grand scheme of your identity.
Given that this is the case, we think that prohibiting and paternalizing in this instance does not cause an immense negative externality on the self, it doesn't send the message that you as a human being are fundamentally flawed, and therefore is not discriminatory in any sense.
And because of this, we think that the government can act on the other two prongs of paternalization, because of the asymmetry of information, and because of the dire public consequences, to take this action and paternalize, and to ban alternative medicine.
Because of the immense health risks, not only to the people that use alternative medicine, but to society writ large, we should ban alternative medicine.