We should end athletic scholarships.
We think there are a few reasons why we should no longer allow universities to give athletic scholarships to prospective students.
The first is that we think that this is an unfair distribution of financial resources that the university as at hand.
We we acknowledge that athletics can be valuable, but we certainly don't think that they are necessarily scholarly, nor do they match the mission of universities writ large.
Recognize that when you allow for athletic scholarships to be given to one individual, that's money from an endowment, that's money from the system, that otherwise could go to paying for the ability for other individuals to go that go to a school, individuals that have earned that entrance into the school because of scholarly achievement, because of the hard work that they put into it.
We think that education is a more even playing field when you allow for individuals that work hard, we think that education is a more even playing field than athletics will ever be.
And so when you allow for all of the money, all the possible endowment and financial aid to go to individuals that have earned it economically, we think that these are instances in which you allow for a more fair entrance into those universities, and you have a more generally balanced playing field.
We also think that you should promote education, because it's more valuable for the vast majority of people in the long run.
We think that athletic scholarships end up being a red herring for a huge amount of individuals.
We think that many high schoolers go into high school, end up playing athletic doing athletics in school, hoping that that will be their opportunity to go to college, even though the vast majority of high school athletes never get an athletic scholarship, never play in d one, and we think that that ends up being a false promise or a false expectation that leads to people being less focused on school and less focused on other opportunities, educational opportunities available to them in high school.
And this, obviously, has long-term implications.
But secondly, we want to talk about how student athletes are abused in the status quo.
Because this let's when you shift to the focus of individuals in university, we think that what ends up happening is that athletic scholarships aren't guaranteed for four years, which means individuals are continuously tied to athletic performance.
We think that this is a massive distraction from their ability to study, from their ability to get the education that they came to the university for.
What this means is that individuals end up being, in large part, in debt to the university when they have this athletic scholarship.
It means that they aren't able to focus on their education, and it's oftentimes used as a way to gain immense financial gains from these students.
Recognize that a huge amount of money is invested into d one sports such as basketball and football, money that never goes back to the students, except for in this pittance of athletic scholarships a relatively comparatively very small portion of all the money that comes from athletic proceeds.
We think that in the status quo you have a system in which athletic scholarships ensure that universities are able to continue this unfair gain over students, because students are constantly in need of getting those athletic scholarships and have very little ability to challenge the current hierarchy.
We think that individuals shouldn't be forced into this constrictive situation.
We think that in the status quo, individuals have their labor stolen from them for no monetary returns.
If you don't make them dependent on athletic scholarships, we think that they're, firstly, more likely to be able to get the education that will serve them in the long run ; secondly, before they enter college, be more likely to be focused on that education ; and thirdly, once they enter college, if they aren't dependent on athletic scholarships, they'll have more bargaining power for the labor that comes from their athletic ability.
So when you have people in athletics in the future, because we don't think you're going to end athletics in college altogether, we think that when people enter those athletics, they're more likely to have the bargaining power to make money off of that labor.
And for those three reasons, we should end athletic scholarships.