We should subsidize investigative journalism.
So just to give a little bit of a model, we think that this subsidy should be based simply on past history.
We think we would give it out to people that have done good investigative work in the past, investigative work that's been acclaimed by other journalists in the field rather than just politicians, and we wouldn't stimulate the the type of subsidy that's that's being given out.
It wouldn't be based on doing x number of reports, or or investigating x topic, it would be just a blank statement and a check that we give to these businesses in these investigative units based on past success.
Alright, two reasons why investigative journalism is so important and why we need more of it in our society today.
The first is because it provides an incredibly important and unique check on politicians, and the second is because our modern circumstances in a day and age of social media and fake news, we need fact finding investigation now more than ever.
Okay, so on politicians: it it's just simply the case that politicians and political leaders have an immense amount of power and ultimately a large amount of discretion as to how they're going to use that power.
Yes it's the case that politicians are checked by voters and politicians are able to be removed from office, but in most cases unless things that are incredibly illegal are done people are able to maintain their power for long stretches of time.
Well, checks in the government obviously exist even outside of voting.
There's checks between the branches of government and checks as far as regulations, we would say that the press serves as a means of shedding light from the outside in an unskewed manner.
And we think there are certain things that the press can uncover that oftentimes are not checked for by the government or by the bureaucracy.
So what are these types of things?
First they're able to break scandals.
There are certain instances in which political leaders are doing things like money laundering money laundering, accepting bribes, committing fraud, all of these types of things that happen and goes goes by the wayside, their colleagues don't notice it.
And these are things that steal money from taxpayers and ensure that a representative is doing their job any counterproductive manner.
Investigative journalism can also do a deep dive into bureaucracy, covering issues that otherwise are unknown to the public.
Take john oliver for example, and how he is able to put together an investigation that's based on the work of other investigative journalists around the country, who are able to uncover things like civil asset forfeiture and do a deep dive into how the government works and how policies behave, and how those policies do serious damage to real life people.
And finally they can they can uncover covert operations that may be breaking international law.
Again, the investigation that goes around things like the snowden leaks.
Things that enhance leaks that are coming out, and otherwise couldn't happen without hardcore investigative journalism.
All of these things, we would say, are are bad things that the government does with little other check aside from the press.
Given that this is the case, we think that it is incredibly important that the press is funded well and that investigative journalism especially is subsidized.
So secondly, why is it so important now?
More news outlets than ever exist.
Many of them are blogs, online only, and not credible, but they're easy to paint themselves as credible.
It's very easy to put on a veneer of legitimacy especially online.
We think that subsidizing real deep investigative journalism ensures that there are reliable sources that people can look to to get information about what's going on in the world today and get hard hitting facts about how the world is behaving, how our political leaders are behaving, and they're able to make more informed decisions moving forward.
They're able to vote in ways that are more reflective of what they actually desire.
They're able to organize and and be active in society in a way that is more informed.
They're able to go about their day knowing that someone is checking politicians and knowing that someone is looking out for them, not just for the interests of the elite.
For these reasons, we should subsidize investigative journalism.