We should not abandon disposable diapers.
In this round, we're gonna make a few main arguments about why we think using disposable diapers is a perfectly reasonable thing for parents to do.
First, let's talk about what we mean by disposable diapers, because we think that the large argument against disposable diapers is that they're just not they're not recyclable, that they end up in landfills, and that these things are incredibly harmful to our environment, but that protects a status quo that we don't need to defend.
We would say that it's certainly possible to develop better methods of not only disposal, but also creating diapers that are recyclable, like using cotton diapers rather than the current types of diapers that we use now.
We think that it's possible to develop these types of diapers and to use the vast amount of technology at our at our disposal as a modern society, and we don't think that doing this precludes them being disposable, that you can have recyclable diapers that are easy to manufacture and that you can do this without having a massive harm to the environment.
But even if that's not the case, even if there's always going to be some sort of environmental tradeoff, why is this a legitimate choice for parents to make?
We think that parents have one of the most, if not the most, difficult job on the planet: to care for another human being, to have the responsibility of another life, and to do all of this while having, most of the time, a different primary job that takes up forty to fifty hours of your week, and that additionally you have to be responsible to the obligations you have there.
You also need to fend for provide food for yourself, for your household, for those that are that are relying on you, and we think that disposable diapers, honestly, are just a way of having an ease of use for these parents.
Parents are already burdened with an immense amount of responsibility, with very little free time for themselves.
And adding more laundry for them to do, adding more hassle for them to have to clean these diapers, which you probably can't just clean in your washing machine because they're covered in feces and covered with other garbage that you just can't throw into the washed with the rest of your clothing.
It's just an immense hassle that will actually add a decent amount of time to what these parents are doing in their day-to-day lives.
We just think that it's the case that disposable diapers are a reasonable choice for parents to make, even if it has some sort of environmental harms.
We make environmental tradeoffs all the time for the benefits of our day-to-day life.
We don't need to use fossil fuels every day.
We don't need to live the lavish lifestyle we have with things like electricity, and things like central air and heat, that do create a bad environmental impact, but we do because it makes our lives better, and we accept those tradeoffs.
And I think in the same way, we can accept the tradeoff that exists here.
Finally, there are a number of businesses that rely on disposable diapers.
I mean a huge industry that exists.
I mean it's hard to fathom how big this industry is because there are millions and millions of infants born every year.
It's a constantly replacing pool of potential of potential consumers that are always going to be needing more diapers and that as one group phases out, another group comes in.
It's a huge industry, a million billion dollar industry that has investors.
It has a number of people whose jobs are relying on this industry, and to simply abandon disposable diapers altogether: one, it's just not feasible.
Like if we were to shift away from disposable diapers altogether, there's not enough reusable cloth diapers or other types of diapers that we can use in the short term, and it would create a massive economic impact on those that work in these industries, that invest in these industries, that own these businesses, that we think isn't worth it.
Between that and the ease of use for parents, we should not abandon disposable diapers.