We should not increase gun control.
So in this debate we think it's important to make clear which actors we're talking about and what we mean exactly by increase.
So when we say that we shouldn't increase gun control we think that given that many states already have very stringent laws, many western states ban ownership, private ownership of guns altogether, we think we're talking primarily about the united states as it's one of the only developed countries with very lenient gun laws and so we just want to say that in the united states, laying out the field, basic limitations do already exist such as registration for gun owners, ownership restriction for ex-felons, and limits on capacity, type of gun, etcetera.
We're going to say that those restrictions that are already in place are sufficient and do a good job of balancing the obligations of the government to protect its citizens and to give citizens freedom.
Alright so two main arguments.
The first is about protection and the second is about liberty.
On protection, we would say that guns are already numerous in the united states so restricting guns now, are not going to remove the amount of guns that are in the united states from the states, it only opens up the black market for nefarious actors.
There's no way that the united states can just magically be like all other states with gun restrictions because they have fewer guns to begin with.
The united states is rare in that in its founding it made gun ownership a fundamental right, a basic right of citizenship and so many citizens not only have guns but also have a very intense attachment to those guns as it links back to whether it be their heritage, or their sense of protection, or their sense of freedom, whatever.
Guns have become a symbolic part of the lives of many americans and so even if the united states were to do a buy back program we don't think most people would comply and we can that guns would still be out there and the black market would grow.
We think that what this means is that even in an ideal world in which all people who are of legitimate who are legitimate gun owners give back their gun, sell their guns back, there would still be thousands if not millions of guns floating around on the black market and we think that this leads to a situation in which innocent people have no ability to defend themselves.
We think that the right of self protection is one of the most basic and fundamental rights that people have and we think in order to maximize that protection, you should be able to arm yourself and train to use a weapon.
We think that in a scenario in which an assailant has a gun, you're much more likely to get out of that scenario safely if you are also armed.
We think that safety checks can be put in place to prevent access to guns for children, or to prevent access to guns for the mentally ill, things like that.
We don't think that this requires banning guns or increasing the restriction on who can have those guns.
So secondly, on liberty.
We would say that the state is a fundamentally coercive of actor, that most people do not have a choice about which state they live in because most people just end up in the state that they were born into, or are forced into a different state because of a refugee issue or because of an issue within that state that they were born into but people don't have the ability to consent fully into the state that they find themselves in.
We think that the state becomes just by maximizing the liberty in individual freedom that people have and so we recognize that in a state you need to make some sort of balance between creating laws to protect other rights of people, say the right to life, the right to freedom of speech, the other types of rights that people enjoy, and the freedoms that people have to express their individual decisions.
We think that the current scenario does the best job of balancing those two things, it allows for a broad discretionary amount of freedom in regard to gun gun ownership, but it ensures that there are basic limitations to ensure that in the worst scenarios in which felons are able to get guns, in which high capacity magazines are able to be sold freely on the market, these types of things that could obviously lead to severe public danger, these are already restricted and outside of those scenarios freedom is allowed to rain and the state is able to be just in this scenario.
For these reasons, we should not increase gun control.