We should subsidize women in science.
So, we're going to lay out a model for what this actually looks like in our world.
We would subsidize business tax rates for stem companies that hire women in stem roles.
So, it's not just an IBM company hiring a secretary, but it's an IBM-type company hiring someone to actually do an engineering role or something that involves the sciences.
And this subsidy in as far as the tax will be proportional to the overall wage gap between men and women.
This is something that is widely known already.
We don't think this is new information.
Additionally, we would provide women who attend stem programs at public colleges significantly reduced tuition at a proportional level to the family's ability to pay.
So, we think many women would be able to go to college for free for these programs, and those that are coming from wealthier families would still get a significant subsidy.
So, first reason we think this is necessary is for historical reparations.
Women have been historically oppressed have been have been a historically oppressed class throughout the history of the human race.
This, of course, is very based on other factors such as class and race, but women generally have been subjugated and placed in subservient roles for the vast majority of human history.
This has left a cultural mark even in our modern society.
Generations of viewing women in subservient roles has created impressions on all people through both our our upbringing and our media about how women should behave and what roles are appropriate for them.
Even in our modern society has granted women freedoms in law that allow them to pursue the outcomes they choose, there're still massive barriers that exist that these freedoms do not help to correct for, such as not having a female coworker in the office, such as people viewing you as not being deserving of a job as compared to another male counterpart.
And these barriers are still the result of our collective construction of female roles and therefore, it's still our collective responsibility to solve them even if law itself can't do the job.
Stem fields are one of those roles that are historically preserved for men.
Women were largely kept out of the educational sector.
Women allowed to learn were rarely given legitimate opportunity to succeed.
Historic repression steers women to other fields because of the historical memory of not being allowed into these fields, meaning those that now enter it are often isolated in a man's world, an incredibly difficult environment to work in.
Subsidizing this is one way to get women into these roles and the more women in these roles, the more we break the stigma and given and give other women allies in the workforce, women that are already there.
We think that when you break the stigma, you get a tidal wave, and this will have a major impact.
Secondly, we think there's just public good to this.
Women are a huge portion of the population and having significant increase in stem employees would be massively beneficial.
First of all, economically, stem fields are some of the highest-paying professions in the modern economy, and many jobs remain open now because of a lack of qualified candidates.
So there are existing jobs that need to be filled.
Adding women to these jobs simultaneously raises their likely take-home pay and quality of life, improving the lives of the women in these roles, but it also fills important jobs for businesses that are changing and growing the economy.
These are businesses that are on the cutting edge of technology that are improving lives, that are putting out products that sell and grow the economy, and these are roles that need to be filled in order for them to do that at their maximal capacity.
But on a second level, technologically, more women in science simply means more brain power for advancements in scientific discoveries and technologies that could improve our overall well-being.
We think that in the last several decades we've seen massive improvements in quality of life all over the world, and a large reason for this is our technological advancement as a species.
Adding brain power to that advancement, adding this new group of people that has been subject that that's been viewed as subservient and not given a fair shake in these roles is one way to improve that overall arc of history and improve our technological advancement.
For these reasons, we should subsidize women in science.