We should not abolish temporary employment.
We're gonna make two main arguments in this debate round.
The first is why such an abolition would be unjust ban and taking an activity that we think is just a part of every individual's fundamental right to contract, and the second is about why these are good jobs and why we shouldn't be trying to abolish these positions.
So firstly on why this is an unjust ban: we think at the very basis of a government you have a system that is inherently unjust.
The reason for that is that the government has immense coercive capacity that inflicts limits on what people are able to do, on the choices they're able to make etcetera.
But people themselves are in large part unable to consent to that government.
We would say that the way that a government then becomes just is by creating a system of laws and creating a a society that maximizes individual freedom in the majority of instances.
We think that one major form of that freedom is that the government is an entity that exists in order to set up a space where contracts will be respected.
The government exists in a way that allows people to know that when they make a guarantee with a business where they make a choice and they sign a contract, both parties of that contract are obligated to uphold their end of that deal.
In essence we think that the right to contract is a fundamental right of people and a fundamental right that people expect to have when they are a part of the state.
That it is a a part of the state that makes it more just and maximizes the freedom that people have, the freedom to contract.
We think that people should be able to take on temp jobs if they see fit.
These are jobs that, as we're going to explain in a second, are good jobs and jobs that people otherwise probably wouldn't be able to achieve.
And we think that if people, knowing their situation better the government is ever going to be able to know their situation, decide to take these jobs that decision should be respected and it's the government's job to uphold that right to contract.
So why are these good jobs?
First we're going to explain that these are not a trade off with full time employment.
So this isn't just a way for companies and corporations to hire people with lower costs associated to those jobs.
Three reasons why this is the case: first, companies like consistency in employment.
It takes a lot of time energy and money to train people to do a task over and over and over again, so there's a preference and businesses to hire full time labor.
People that we know are going to stick with the company for a long time that you don't need to retrain.
Second, companies like to promote from within.
This is this means two things: first, temporary jobs are often opportunities for a full time job, but more importantly companies like that people have experience with their product, with what they're selling, with their whole corporate brand and what they're trying to what they're trying to accomplish, and this is a reason why temp jobs aren't a trade off with full time jobs.
Because full time jobs do a much better job of actually getting those people that you can promote from within and those people that will be able to serve you in harder roles later on.
Finally, companies want good representation and a good reputation in a competitive job market.
So they don't want to be seen as just trying to price out full time employees.
We would say that what it actually does is it opens extra jobs.
Jobs that may only be temporary but are jobs nonetheless that pay a reasonable rate wage to new people.
People with fewer defined skills, lower levels of education, and open the door for these people to the potential that they could get a full time job in the future.
Temporary jobs aren't a trade off.
They don't harm american business, they don't harm the job market, and they give opportunities to people that otherwise would not have had them, all at the same time maximizing freedom.
For these reasons we should not abolish temporary employment.