We should not ban organic food.
So in this debate we're going to do two things: the first is we're gonna talk about the principles that govern when we can and cannot ban something and then we're going to from that explain why organic foods do not meet the criteria of a ban.
Ok.
So we would say that fundamentally the state is an unjust and coercive actor.
The reason for this is that individuals do not have a meaningful ability to consent to the state that they are born into, when they move from one state to the other it is almost always because of certain confines that force that decision, and even if that isn't the case people still aren't able to meaningfully choose which laws are those that will govern them, and they aren't able to opt out of laws when they don't feel that they are applicable to them, which means that the state is fundamentally a coercive actor.
The reason, the way that the state becomes just is by balancing that coercive force by maximizing individual freedom.
This means that because bans are fundamentally contradictory to human freedom - bans prevent certain human action, bans can only take place under certain circumstances, and a few of those may be firstly that there's an asymmetry of information - that individuals simply do not have the information available to them and that this information cannot be gleaned through any other source besides government intervention, and because of this rational agents could not make the correct decision because people are capable of making rational choices in these regards.
The second is if there is a pressing public harm, so there's a large external harm that comes about through the practice of what is being banned, or thirdly if to take this sort of action of freedom you were to minimize the freedom of those around you.
So if the net amount of freedom in the world were to be lower if people were to take the action that is being banned.
For example, if I murder another person it means that my expression of freedom in my one instance prevents that person from expressing their freedom in infinitely more instances, that these are instances in which you can ban particular actions or practices.
We don't think that any of this is the case for organic food.
There is no massive asymmetry of information, and well, sometimes the plausible benefits of organic food can be manipulated or hyperbolized by the industry, it is the case that this food is generally better for the environment, because it's not grown with pesticides and other dangerous chemicals which can harm the environment around it which can harm ecosystems, and at the very least it is a neutral gain, which means that by eating organic food you're not exposing yourself to dramatic harm or really harmed in any meaningful way.
And what this means is that even if people are, have a wrong belief, that is not a wrong belief that can't be corrected through through information that's publicly available.
There's lots of research available on organic food, there is lots of debate in our public in our public social atmosphere about the benefits of organic food.
All this stuff is available to people to make reasonable decisions about and to dig into further for their own information.
And further, organic food possibly is more healthy.
Studies at this point are inconclusive but there are some studies that point to organic foods being healthier for the individual than non organic food and that is an immense benefit that we don't think warrants any type of ban.
We think that in limiting people, in making this decision, by banning organic food all that the government does is shut down a burgeoning and new market that has a potential for job growth in for better health outcomes, both for individuals and for the environment in which the food is grown.
We don't think that there's any immense benefit of having this ban put in place and we think it only would exist to restrict the freedom of individuals who are rationally making the choice to consume this food.
Given that the criteria of a ban simply is not met with organic food, and that it would lead to a less just state, we should not ban organic food.