We should legalize sex selection.
At the beginning of this debate, it's important to recognize that the reasons that someone would choose to have an abortion because of the sex of their child, or would choose to, prior to being pregnant trying to select the sex of their child, the reasons for this are wide and varied, and we think that many of these are culturally dependent and built into the ways in which people have been raised over the course of their entire lives.
So recognizing it at the beginning in this debate, it's incredibly difficult to change the mentality that these people have, and to change the culture that drives people to having the sort of abortions or doing the sort of procedures.
So, that is crucial to recognize at the very start.
Given that that is the case, we think there are two reasons that you should legalize sex selection.
The first is about bodily autonomy, and the second is a bit about how the lives of these children if this isn't passed, or if this legislation or if this legalization doesn't happen, why the lives of children that are going to be born are going to be on net worse.
Okay.
Two things.
First, bodily autonomy.
We think that anyone that is pregnant has the right to abort that pregnancy at any given moment due to their claim to bodily autonomy.
We think that bodily autonomy is the most important right that an individual has, because it is the prior right to the access of any other rights.
What I mean by this is that in order to access your rights to freedom of speech, to mobility, to access to economic capital, any of these sorts of things, what is required prior to that is the right to bodily autonomy.
And we think that, because this individual is currently able to access that right and not only access that right, but because this individual compared to the fetus, has a much higher claim to that right, because they are a cognizant of the fact that their rights exist because they're able to act upon those rights because they have been afforded those rights for sometime, and because for for many reasons the fetus up to a point of viability simply cannot be weighed in the same sense as the mother can.
So we think that, for, we think that bodily autonomy is necessary to access all of these other rights and to force women to go through these births when they don't want to because of the gender of their child, is problematic.
But, from there it's important to think about what happens if these abortions or if these procedures are not allowed.
We think that what's likely to happen is that, two major things.
First, we think this child might be abandonned, which is , a horrible fate to happen to a child.
This can happen either if this child being forced into an orphanage or something like that into a state that is likely not very good, somewhere where they're unlikely to get the education and the sort of foundational building of their life that allows them to be successful in the future, but also an environment that is likely to tell them that they're unwanted.
If they're not abandoned, or in some cases killed, what's likely to happen is this person is going to take this child into their house without really wanting this child, you think what comes from this is first fueling anger towards this child, the feeling that this child is to blame for the fact that they didn't get the gender of child that they want, that this child is lesser than what they otherwise could have had, and we think that putting blame and putting anger towards this child is likely going to give them a life that is problematic, that sets them down a path where they're unlikely to be happy moving into the future.
Recognize how foundational parents and upbringing are to future happiness in an individual.
We don't think that life is by de facto, oh claim a good thing to have.
We don't think that life is always going to be enjoyable for the person experiencing that life.
And we think that, a reason that this can happen, a reason that someone could have an on net disutile life, is because of those foundational things that a parent presents and raises their child believing.
If a child is raised in a household where they're said they're to blame for all the agony and all the pain that the mother had to go through, if they're blamed for the fact that they are not a boy and, or rather a girl, or for any of these types of things, if they're constantly belittled because of their gender, we think that these are things that are very likely to happen when the anger that occurs in these people who are not allowed to get abortions happens, and from there we think it's very likely that these people are going to live much less utile lives than otherwise, they than otherwise an alternative child if this legislation were to pass could have had.
And because of this, we think it is necessary to legalize sex selection