We should not ban strip clubs.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think it would be problematic to ban strip clubs.
The first is that we think that such a ban would be a fundamentally unjust ban.
We believe that the state is essentially a coercive body, and the reason for this is that it has the sole ability to wield legitimate force within its borders.
It has an immense coercive apparatus that dictates what people are able to do with their lives.
And by that description alone, it's a it the state could be considered to something like a bully or a cartel.
It's some sort of authoritarian force that we think, without any sort of justification, becomes unjust.
Generally, people are unable to fully consent to the state, either because they were born into that state or they were forced to live in that state by circumstances outside of their control, but even if they did choose to move to that state fully within their control, there's no way that someone had the ability to consent to every single law that governs the state.
And so, fundamentally, we would say that people are unable to consent to the state amd that without that consent, the state is a cartel.
The state is unjust.
So the way that the state becomes just is to find some sort of proxy for consent, to find some sort of reason why people would consent to the state were they to have the ability to give that meaningful consent.
And we think that what that proxy for consent is is to look at what people would be in in a state of nature, and within the state of nature, there's no sort of rights protections.
You have an infinite amount of rights, but you have no protections for those rights.
And so we think that people opt-in to the state, ultimately, to ensure that their freedom is preserved, that they give up a degree of their freedom to ensure that the freedom that they do have is more robust.
It's something that they are more able to express.
And so we think that when you're banning something, that ban fundamentally goes against freedom in and of itself, the purpose of the state, and therefore, there's only certain instances in which you can do these bans.
One of those would be that there's a direct third-party harm, which is why we ban things like assault but, clearly, that's not the case with strip clubs.
There's no harm that comes to either the patrons or the workers in the strip club to to people from their access from them being there.
And additionally, there could be some sort of asymmetry of information in which people cannot make fully conformed consent to go into these places but, again, that's not the case.
People who go to strip clubs or work in strip clubs know what they're getting themselves into.
And finally, there could be some sort of overwhelming good to the community.
But we would argue, in fact, that it's the opposite, and that brings us to our second point.
We think that banning strip clubs would ultimately restrict female autonomy.
We live in a patriarchal society, and many that advocate for banning strip clubs would agree to this: that strip clubs are a patriarchal institution.
But we think that their solution to this patriarchal institution is to take away the autonomy that women have to choose whether or not they want to work in these strip clubs.
But we think that this just perpetuates the same patriarchal oppression that women have experienced for thousands of years, that the root of patriarchal oppression is not that men are in higher positions of power, but that women are subjugated and removed from having the autonomy to do with their lives as they see fit, whether it's not being able to hold land, or hold a job, or to have a child on their own, or to do these types of things in a society, to make choices with their body and for themselves that are their own choices.
We think that allowing women to have these choices is ultimately the most respectful thing we can do for women, the most feminist thing that we can do.
And we think that if banning strip clubs is something that people are doing to protect women, it is simply outright the it is doing the opposite of its intention.
It's doing more to oppress women, which we think is unjust, given the historical oppression that women have faced going back millennia.
For these reasons, we should not ban strip clubs.