We should ban anonymous posts.
So, a quick overview: we think that this debate is generally about websites and about online anonymous posts.
We're not going to talk about like editorials and newspapers or anything like that.
We just want to keep this debate to be we want to keep this debate clear.
We're banning this type of stuff, this type of anonymous posts on internet forums, social media, et cetera, and the regulation is going to be on the rights on the sites themselves.
So we think that it would be a regulation that's put in place that would fine a website for allowing anonymous posts and things like that.
All right.
Two big arguments here.
The first is that we think this creates a check on free speech, which is very important, and the second is that this decreases bullying.
So, firstly, that talk about free speech.
We think that free speech is a crucial right to give people.
It allows for self-expression, which allows people to learn about their own identities and to find other people that that have similar identities and to form collectives that are really that allow people to self-actualize, allow people to internalize value.
It garners an open space to air political and social ideas, which we think help society progress as a whole, and it also increases the general knowledge.
Having free speech allows us to spread information and allows knowledge to be spread across a wide base.
We also think there's a huge risk that comes with free speech.
It allows anyone to share any thoughts that they have, whether those thoughts are true or not and whether those thoughts are kind or not.
We think anonymity to the scale of the internet has never been seen before in human history.
The ability to simply post something anonymously on the web on on a website in a way that allows you to garner thousands or potentially millions of views on that thought has never been possible before.
Sure, you could anonymously post into a newspaper, you could anonymously publish something on a flyer and leave it in public, but this just isn't the same type of anonymity that we're talking about today, this widespread collective anonymity that that exists in our world.
We think that the attachment between a name and an idea is a check on the worst-case scenario that could arise from giving free speech.
And we think that what we've done in our modern society is eliminated that check through things like social media, and other anonymous online forums for spreading our ideas, and many people do not want to have those their names attached to their worst thoughts, to their worst ideas.
We think that banning anonymous posting, banning this type of anonymity would do a massive good in reining in the harms that have come from free speech, especially in the last decade or two with the rise of the internet, and we think that this would do more for allowing a more social consciousness to arise amongst the internet users and allow for a more tame internet use.
And so, we're going to talk about decreasing bullying, because I think that's a specific application for anonymity and how that comes to harm us in a really tangible way.
It's a huge problem in the world, especially for adolescents, cyberbullying, that is.
And we think it's easy to do because it can be anonymous, there's no repercussions, for example, in a school system, in the same way that if you do something publicly, there are those repercussions.
We think that this is tangibly seen.
Teen suicides and depression are way up compared to past generations.
Your online reputation and your identity are very important to someone that has come of age in this time period where where technology and the internet are synonymous with our everyday activities.
We think that banning anonymity protects children in two ways.
It prevents them from being bullied in the first place, and it ensures that people that are bullying get caught when they do bully.
It ensures that you have some sort of check that you can put through the school system.
And given in the past, that we were able to prevent these types of things on a wide scale, we were able to prevent teen suicide and these high rates of depression, we think that removing the the potential for anonymity, removing the potential for widespread cyberbullying of an individual without ever holding anyone accountable is an important way of checking the harms that we see.
We think that the same types of benefits can be gained across generations and across different social spheres, and this is just a particular application of why we should ban anonymous posts.