We should not end the use of solitary confinement.
In this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think that solitary confinement is necessary and why we think that it can be reformed to the point where it doesn't have the negative connotation to the extent that it does now.
So we think that while solitary confinement is demonized as being equivalent to torture, it's something that people say is a human rights violation, we think that that is because the status quo way in which we use solitary confinement is problematic.
Keeping people outside of regular communities for days or weeks or years on end, keeping them in very small confined spaces that they aren't allowed to leave, not allowing them to have even contact with their guards, these types of things are truly torturous but we think that you can still have solitary confinement without having standards that allow it to be imposed on someone for literally months or years on end.
You can ensure that they have larger spaces so that they don't feel trapped like they're in a cage.
You can ensure that they do get a small portion of their day outside and able to wander around.
We think that there are reasonable ways in which we can change and reform solitary confinement to the point that it is not torturous.
To the extent that that is possible, we think that there are important ends that solitary confinement allows us to achieve.
One of those is to separate the most dangerous criminals.
There are people that are in maximum security prisons that are in there for things like drug offenses and then there are people that are in those prisons for things like mass homicide and one of those groups is clearly a danger to the other while one of those is not a danger to the other.
And we think it is important for prison systems to be able to have something like solitary confinement in order to ensure the safety of those prisoners, in order to ensure that all prisoners that are in their care are not being are not at risk of being harmed in a serious way.
There were also prisoners that instigate crime through things like gangs that are within prisons, people that are ring leaders of these gangs that are in charge of these gangs and that our and that are leading essentially attacks on other people within these prisons.
And it's important that you have a way to separate those people from those gangs, that you have a way to take them out of the general population so that people are not being harmed.
But you also need to have some sort of a vehicle for deterrence.
So we think that something like solitary confinement is a way to deter prisoners from having bad behavior.
And when someone is already in prison, possibly in prison for the rest of their life, it's very hard to have meaningful deterrence within the legal system itself given that the punishment is what they are already experiencing.
So we think that something like solitary confinement gives an elevated level of deterrence within prisons and we think that this is important not just for the safety of the prisoners but also for the safety of the guards.
Having something like solitary confinement to deter prisoners from having riots or attacking guards that are innocent civilians that are in these prisons.
We think that it's important that solitary confinement be a tool that prisons are able to access, we certainly think that it should be reformed to a large extent to the point where it is not is not tantamount to something like a human rights violation but as far as a tool to deter bad behavior and to separate bad prisoners, we think solitary confinement is necessary and for these reasons we should not end the use of solitary confinement.