We should abolish the two-party system.
To be clear what, we want to do in this debate is we're going to say that as a mechanism for demolishing and abolishing the two-party system, we're going to create a parliamentary system in which after a certain threshold, people are political positions and seats are decided based on percentage of outcomes.
So, similar to what's currently done in most parliamentary states all across europe and around the world, that's what we're going to do in the united states, that's what we're going to do with the two-party system.
So why do we think this is going to be effective?
Why do we think this is going to be good?
Two reasons: the first is that you give an increased choice and that that is an immensely important.
So, what do you get an increased choice for?
In the status quo, the two-party system does a very bad job of representing the spectrum of views that people currently hold in the state.
This is why, for example, thirty three percent of people in the united states choose not to affiliate with any party at all and why within those parties, we currently have a system in which there's immense amounts of infighting within these political parties, which means which leads to things like we've seen recently in the united states, where you have a governing party in the republican party that has control of all three branches of government that isn't able to pass the legislation it wants because the party isn't actually a cohesive unit.
The party no longer has that ideological that ideological unison that otherwise allows you to pass meaningful legislation.
Now, we think if you had a multiparty system, if you didn't just have two parties, you're more likely to have a system in which people recognize their distinctions between these parties and are more likely to come together to try and join some sort of governing coalition, knowing that in order to form that governing coalition, they need to make some sort of sacrifices to make it work.
In the status quo, you don't have that recognition of coalition building.
People don't try to build coalitions in two-party systems because they're simply trying to build a majority by making the other side look worse and worse.
This is a system that works for nobody and represents the choices of very few.
It's very difficult to pass popular legislation that the majority of people agree with when you aren't able to meaningfully build coalitions that cross party lines, which is what we see in the two-party system in the status quo.
The second reason why we think we should abolish the two-party system is to decrease that type of division, but not necessarily the political division, but the social division that exists with the two-party system.
In the status quo political environment, we have a very toxic situation in which the two-party system breeds direct competition between the parties, and this leads to a system in which demonizing the other parties to make yours look less bad is actually one that can win.
This is what we saw being done by republicans in the united states for the entirety of the obama administration.
A governing a an entire party in the republican party that wasn't trying to pass legislation.
It wasn't trying to get anything done.
It just wanted to make the other side look as bad as possible.
And in doing that, you created a situation in which people in both of those parties grew immensely had immense animosity form between them in a way that we didn't see fifty, sixty years ago but is very prevalent now.
We currently have a system in which people of different parties don't feel like they can come together and don't feel like they can socialize or try and get any sort of community together between these parts.
It fractures entire communities in the status quo.
We think that a multiparty system, one that has more than two parties, is one that's likely to be less combative than the current system because political parties can't just go around trying to make the other party look worse in order to bolster themselves, because there's now many more parties to choose from, and positive advocacy is what's going to make you stand out amongst the other parties.
When you don't demonize the opposition party that you're facing, when you don't demonize those that are members of those parties, you're less likely to have the animosity we see in the status quo, and you're less likely to see the resentment that the political process breeds.
All of this, we think, forms a more cohesive society and for these reasons, along with the benefits of choice, we should abolish the two-party system.