We should not cancel the social security tax.
We think that social security and medicaid are crucial to the ability for elderly individuals to live a healthy and fulfilling life, and we think that people are generally incredibly bad long-term planners which means that the government needs to step in in this instance to ensure not only that people can live healthy and long lives but also to mean that when people become elderly and have to retire, can't work can't afford to can't stay in the workplace, it means that they don't become a detraction to the state.
It means that they don't have to be the sort of individual that just takes from the state, takes the resources of the state without any sort of ability to take care of themselves, which we think is a long-term drag on society when you not only have children that need to be taken care but also an elderly class that needs to be taken care of.
We think this, as social security, is a great means of solving that.
So recognize that while you may not have any sort of right to the money that you to the money that you're getting from social security well you don't necessarily have right money per se.
There's a reason why you also don't have a right to the money that you've earned through your tax through your work, for your effort.
We think the state has given you the opportunity to have the sort to have jobs, to have the ability to have some sort of financial income and we think given that, we think the state also has an ability to justly tax you as long as that money is being used for a social benefit, which we think social security is.
So why is social security so good?
Firstly, people are incredibly bad long-term planners.
When individuals have the opportunity to spend money in the near-term in order to expand their ability to enjoy themselves in the immediate moment or put money aside for the incredibly long-term things that some people don't even think will be possible: the ability retire there life twenty, thirty, forty years into the future.
We think that when people are forced to make decisions in that long-term calculus, they end up ultimately doing a very poor job on the act of it.
Almost always people choose to spend on the present or they choose to put money away.
It's simply not enough.
They don't realize how much it takes to actually live off of a retirement fund.
Social security solves for that because it means that you don't put the decision of how to save into the hands of actors who are people who are just trying to decide what's going to give them the most pleasure, rather you put into the hands of an unbiased government agency that understands what long-term is necessary in order for people to stay for people to stay safe and healthy moving into the future.
We also think that a lot of the costs for elderly are different than people who are currently planning for their retirement so people don't have a good understanding of how much healthcare is going to cost.
People never have a good understanding of what sort of needs they'll have when they're elderly where as a system such as the social security system allows for another more educated source to plan for those types of things, which we think is beneficial.
We also think that this is the best way to tax for this type of program.
We think that in in a social security fund you need to have an exorbitant amount of money in order to actually be able to live off your retirement funds.
Given that this is the case, we think the best particular way to tax is this one.
When you take money directly out of someone's income, which we think is directly proportionate to what they would have had in the status quo, remember you're not taking these people money away to do with for whatever unnecessary government resource, it's all going to go back to them so it's really just ensuring that they have an income past their retirement or they have an income into the long run.
And when you take it from there and come over very long period of time, everyone that works in the united states has to pay the FICA tax when you do this over a very long period of time it becomes a negligible amount of money or a fairly small amount of money that can be taken out of someone's paycheck week-to-week but it means that in the long run you have a massive accumulation which means that even people that weren't incredibly high-skilled or wealthy laborers can have a nice little retirement fund so that they don't become some sort of drag on society and so they can live independent and fulfilling lives after their retirement.
And because of this we certainly think you should not get rid of the social security tax.