The right to internet access should be protected.
So, we want to start by making the model for this round very clear in explaining why we think this model is important and why it should be upheld.
So firstly, two parts.
First, we think that the right to publish, host and do other things on the internet should be unlimited within the current boundaries of free speech law.
So, we don't think that the internet should be a place in which laws don't apply, in which individuals aren't held to the same restrictions that they otherwise would be in our civil society, but this doesn't mean that you can deny people the ability to host things that you may think are problematic if they would otherwise be able to do these things in their own private lives, be able to do these own these things in public discourse, within the current boundaries of free speech law.
So we don't think that the internet should be given additional restrictions outside of that free speech law.
We also think the access to content should be guaranteed.
You should be allowed to have a public connection to the internet, and people should be guaranteed the right to interact with the internet, to have a forum and a face and a place on the internet, and people should be guaranteed internet access.
All right, so why do we think that this is a right not just a a good that people can have, but a right that they must have?
We think that the internet has become ubiquitous.
You need it in your everyday life for employment, for socializing, for commerce, etcetera.
In order to live a well-rounded social life in our modern day society, you must have an internet connection.
You must have a presence on social media or at least the ability to interact with various outlets in which our social society has become so interconnected, whether it's twitter, whether it's reading the news online, whether it's facebook, whether it's being able to connect with people through blogs or on reddit or on any other type of forum.
These are all necessary parts of our current social sphere in the same way that going to public forums a hundred years ago was a necessary part of interacting with the social sphere, of going to political rallies is a necessary part of the or being able to access those types of things a necessary part of your political enfranchisement.
The same thing goes for things in the economic sphere.
In order to get a job in the present time, you must have a presence online, whether that's being able to have a profile on linkedin, whether it's being able to have an email address so that businesses can contact you and you can contact them in reverse, or being able to access job posting sites.
All these things are necessary.
And furthermore, commerce is obviously something that, again, has become entirely driven through the internet, whether it's big websites like amazon or being able to connect with small businesses through their own sites.
All of these things are part of our human lives.
All these things are part of our human connections and all these things are fundamental to being able to live a fulfilling life.
If you're crowded out from the social, economic and employment spheres of your own life because you do not have a guaranteed right to the internet, because you don't have a guaranteed right to access the internet, we think that your ability to function within society is massively undermined.
We think rights are determined by their underlying necessity for people to actualize in life, to have a high quality of life.
We think that that is the underpinning of all rights that are guaranteed within our society.
Given that that's the case, we think that the right to internet access clearly falls along those lines.
While maybe you won't die if you don't have a right to internet access, you also probably wouldn't die if you didn't have a right to free speech, but you can't self-actualize if you aren't if you aren't able to express yourself in the way that free speech laws require.
The same thing is true of the right to internet.
You cannot be a fully interactive, a fully connected, a fully maximized person that maximizes their employment potential, their potential in the free market and their potential to socialize with human connectivity, if you do not have access to the internet.
This is a modern need, but it is a need nonetheless.
And given that that is the case, the right to internet access should be protected.