We should further exploit small modular reactors.
When we say we're going to further exploit the small modular reactors, we mean that we should further increase our use of these things, both in more remote areas that struggle to get their electrical needs and for businesses, large manufacturing areas that require immense amounts of electricity that may want to move off the grid, and we think that this should be subsidized in large part by the government in order for people to adopt these things en masse.
Okay.
So, two reasons why we think that small modular reactors are good: first is that nuclear energy is generally quite clean as compared to fossil fuels and and other alternative energies, and the second is about the immense energy potential and why this is so important, especially moving forward in a developing world.
Okay.
So, on clean energy: compared to fossil fuels, nuclear reactors and small modular reactors having much lower impact on the environment.
They don't because the type of deforestation and environmental degradation that fracking and other types of drilling cause.
They don't require you to clear out large swathes of land in order to use these types of things, and they don't create the excess CO two that leads to global warming.
This is crucial, because it's important to recognize that global warming is not only happening, but it's happening dramatically and quickly and that we need to quickly shift away from what we're doing in the status quo in order to prevent the worst effects of global warming from happening.
In order to do this, we need to take advantage of all of all the resources that are available to us for renewable energy.
We can't just we can't just resort to solar and wind and say that the job is done.
We need to try and move the entire grid off of fossil fuels as quickly as possible.
To do this, we think that small modular reactors are going to be a necessary way of enacting these changes, especially in areas that are much more remote than others, that aren't able to get access to these other types of renewable energy, for example, in areas where wind power and solar power simply is not going to meet the burden.
It's also important to recognize that meltdowns generally are quite rare.
So when the opposition may say that small modular reactors are bad because you're more likely to get a meltdown, firstly, these are actually less likely and more efficient than large nuclear facilities to have a meltdown, and the rates of some sort of a meltdown are incredibly low compared to, for example, the likelihood of an oil spill from an oil rig contaminating and ruining the environment for decades to come.
These things happen much more likely, yet we don't completely force people to to flee from fossil fuels.
We think that we have a comparatively cleaner technology that we should adopt, especially due to the impacts of global warming.
Secondly, on the immense energy potential.
The type of energy creation this is the type of energy creation that can be done in almost any environment.
So unlike other types of renewable fuels and other types of fossil fuels, you don't really need to have any sort of particular geographical advantage in order to use a small modular reactors.
They also be lower cost of energy than almost any other source once you get the energy up and running.
Once you have a bulk use of small modular reactors, they're much easier to create, on the cheap, per kilowatt of energy than other types of energy, and this is why we should try to subsidize these things.
So that we can get the market up to scale in order to make it efficient enough and cheap enough to be worthwhile.
We would say that the grid is only going to be more heavily used in the future as more and more people become developed and start needing the electricity to live a modern life.
Given that this is the case, we're going to need more to power the future, and it needs to be done more efficiently than possible or than has previously been done and is certainly being done in the status quo.
In order to do this, we think a clean technology such as nuclear is a smart way to go and for these reasons, we should further exploit small modular reactors.