We should abolish term limits.
So our main argument is going to be about the democratic will and why we think term limits are are antithetical to the entire purpose and constituency of democracy.
So, at the center of all democracy is the ability to select those who will represent your interests, the ability to have a say in what the governance is going to look like that in in your state, and who's going to be a part of that governance.
We think that term limits set an arbitrary amount of time as the maximum for how long someone can hold public office.
So it's not like there are certain reasons why, say, holding four terms is going to lead to more or less harm than holding five terms or anything like that.
We just arbitrarily draw a line when you have term limits and say, " this means that you cannot run for office anymore ", and this de facto limits the will of the popular vote.
We think that this is principally unacceptable.
It creates an undemocratic check on the people's will without some sort of strong justification for removal at that point.
Yes, you can make arguments about why this is used to avoid tyranny, and we'll address those in the future, but all those arguments are not dependent on any one point in the future at which you draw the line for a term limit.
They're just theoretical limits theoretical ideas of what could happen over a long period of time generally, and so there's no rationale for specific term limits, and we think that these are principally unjust for silencing the people's voice.
So, there are also many reasons why long-term incumbent is good for people and why the people would want this.
First, that person likely understands the interests of the community on a deep level.
They've been hearing the vocalize concerns of community members for multiple terms now, and they have a long-time connection with individuals within that community.
So it's not just they understand their concerns, but they're invested in the well-being of their neighbors, with their fellow community members.
It's also possibly the case that a person who's been in politics for a long time as is a strong political operative who has experience in passing legislation, and this can include getting provisions into bills that explicitly help the constituents of that person's that that person represents.
There's also a track record of his of success that comes with an incumbent, and it makes voting for an incumbent a more secure vote than voting for someone who may replace him or her.
The reason for this is that when you've seen, time and again, that an incumbent, someone that has won multiple terms, has served the community well, has brought things back to the community they represent, whether it be funding for education, infrastructure, any of these types of things, they have a proven track record of getting things done and at the end of the day, that is the responsibility of the representative.
And if they do it well, whether it be for four years or for forty years, that person should be allowed to serve and represent the people.
So, let's let's address this " avoid tyranny " argument.
So the reason for term limits that is generally given is that if you don't have term limits, it allows people to accumulate too much power, and then they can just stay in office forever and use that power in a tyrannical way.
We think that tyranny is always defined in the eyes of the populace.
It's not some sort of set term that you can say is that you can point it out when you see it.
It's defined by those who are being represented.
If an incumbent becomes tyrannical, we still think there are other checks in the state to prevent total control.
If I'm one member of a legislature and I've been running a political operation in one district, in one state, in the united states, well, this isn't going to be this isn't going to be enough to allow me power to actually turn that state into a tyrannical state.
Even as the president, there are a number of checks and balances that prevent these things.
And finally, you can always still vote this person out.
If suddenly they stop representing the interests of the people, if they stop serving the role they are meant to do, the people have the ability to see that and to vote that person out, but it's not done in an arbitrary way like term limits set, it's when that person is removed from office because they no longer represent the voice of the people.
For these reasons, we should abolish term limits.