We should subsidize distance education.
So, in this round, we're gonna make two arguments about why distance education or otherwise known as online education, e-education you know, higher education through online services, why any of these things are preferable to the current system and why they should be subsidized and they should be made more pronounced in our society.
The first argument is about ongoing liberal education and why it's crucial.
So, in the status quo, we live in an rapidly changing world.
For the first time in human history, we don't know what the next generation will look like, what their lives will look like, what their jobs will look like, how their interactions will look like.
All these things are unknown to us and which is a really radical thought, even if you don't recognize it at first, because for hundreds of generations of humans before us, the generation before them looked basically the same as the generation of the present.
This is something that is radically different, and old styles of education which you learned at a young age, you acquired some sort of skill, and you applied your trade for the rest of your life, those types of things simply aren't going to cut it, because all these rapid changes apply to the workplace as well, meaning that old labor skills simply may not be applicable to the marketplace tomorrow.
Online courses give an option for people to continually learn new skills.
You don't just need to be someone that goes to college, or gets a high school education, or whatever level of education you get at, and then move on, go into your job, and never try and pick up new skills that you can apply to your trade, because this is only going to make you stagnant in an incredibly dynamic jobs market.
And we think especially skills like coding and and IT are going to be incredibly valuable in the future and are things that you can often get done very well through online courses.
We think the government has a clear interest in ensuring that the population has as diverse and effective a skill set as possible as this leads to better economic productivity, a higher standard of living, all these other positive outcomes that come from continual education and because of this, we think this is a very clear, positive use of a subsidy.
So, the second argument we want to make is about breaking the monopoly on higher and private education.
So, in the status quo, education from universities and college we think are valued to a high degree because of their name recognition.
Because when you have a degree from a very prestigious university, you can move forward, and you can use that degree, and you can use the name of that university to open doors for you.
This means that those institutions can raise costs knowing that even if the educational competitiveness between them and other institutions may be about equivalent, if they have a name recognition, that's something that they can add to their value, and people have an immense pressure to buy into those costs.
We think that subsidizing distance education solve this in a few ways.
First, it makes those options, the options for all my education, more competitive pricewise and drives more people to those options.
Secondly, it incentivizes higher quality education on these websites, which are already very high quality, in order to do things like get accreditation and attract the most people possible.
And thirdly, it signals to the population as the government that these institutions are legitimate, that these are institutions that can provide real skills to the public, that can provide real marketable labor skills to people that take part in these online courses, and that you don't just need to be stagnant in the job market.
You don't need to just go back to school after you become unemployed because you find your job is no longer in demand, you can continue to learn.
And when you face layoffs that inevitably are coming with these rapidly changing workplaces, you'll be more prepared to respond.
For these reasons, we should subsidize distance education.