Astrology brings more good than harm.
When we're talking about astrology we think there are two distinct types of people that we're discussing in this debate.
The first is the casual individual who follows astrology casually, who has a casual interest in things like horoscopes and other types of reading and things like that, things that are involved in astrology, and we think that there are there are serious individuals who are deeply invested in astrology who do things like plan their lives around predictions made from horoscopes, who choose a mate based on these types of things, who do various other make various important life decisions based on astrology.
We think that for both of these groups of people astrology brings more good than harm.
So we're gonna start with to casual person and move on to the serious person.
So for the casual person we think that astrology is simply an entertaining release for someone's frustration or something that someone can casually follow along to and gain various shallow insights into themselves.
We think that a lot of these times horoscopes and other types of astrological , findings are simply broad ideas that people can use to kind of find insights into themselves and I think that's oftentimes what happens when people use astrology casually.
They look at a horoscope they look at some other, they get a palm reading, they do something like this and someone gives them a vague answer about what their future is going to be life and from there they're able to extrapolate and gain some sort of insight into themselves.
We think when it comes to this person, there's very little trade off that exists between this entertainment that the person gets to have in the moment and long term sacrifice based on a belief in something that's wrong because for these casual people we don't think that they make really important life decisions based on what's going to happen and therefore we really don't see much of a harm at all for these people following astrology.
Our opponents might say that it dilutes a view of truth or whatnot, but we're going to get to that now with the casual ur with the serious enjoyer of astrology.
We don't think that truth exists.
Rather we think that truth is a construction out of what people have observed and what people choose to believe.
We think that while astrology is probably further from scientifically provable, there's no reason that you should should that you should truly believe what is scientifically provable.
We can be skeptical approach to life, one in which you doubt your senses, is most appropriate approach because it ensures that you never invest too much of yourself into something that could clearly be false.
We think that our senses prove us wrong all the time.
People see things that don't exist, hear things that don't exist.
Our senses are flawed and based simply on our flawed biology.
Given that this is the case, we don't think that there's any reason that someone should be shamed for their belief in astrology, given that everyone should be skeptical of all of their views.
So, if someone has this deep belief, what do we think they gain?
First, we think that they gain some sort of peace of mind in the world that is simply random.
We think that having a belief in astrology is like having someone that's going to hold your hand through life.
It ensures that you have some sort of safety blanket and that you have some sort of guidance in a world where guidance is simply far too hard to come across.
We don't, even if people make choices like where they're going to live, what job they're going to do or who they're going to marry based on astrology, we think that when people are so deeply invested in these types of ideas, that they are often, they often follow themselves along with those ideas.
So they find happiness in being able to follow those ideas, they force themselves, or they don't force themselves but they trick their minds into being happy even in instances when they aren't and even if it's not true happiness that people are achieving, even if people are kind of fooling themselves into thinking that what they're doing is making them happy, we think that that's totally acceptable because as long as they're experiencing the utility that is supposed to come with astrology, we don't think they're making any dramatically harmful life choices.
We think that it's very rare that someone would harm themselves because astrology and given that that's the case, even if it's irrational, we still think that astrology brings more good than harm.