We should not abolish intelligence tests.
So we want to start with a brief overview.
We would say that there are obviously many forms of intelligence and that when you have these intelligence tests that measure traditional IQ these don't need to pass moral judgment on the people that are being tested.
To say that someone scored poorly on an IQ test does not say that that person is inherently stupid.
It does not say that that person is inherently lesser.
It simply to recognize that that person may struggle in certain fields of learning, in certain fields of cognitive dissonance, and that in those areas there are other ways that the person can be helped and that this information that's being provided from these tests can be valuable.
So we're gonna focus primarily on how these tests can be used in schools and with children because quite frankly, we don't think that there's any reason that adults traditionally would take intelligence tests.
It's not something that you normally have to do and if you want to take an intelligent test as a as an adult, that's fine.
You're an adult, you can make that decision for yourself.
We think that children are really the interesting area in which this debate lies.
So first, why do we think that you can better cater to students when you have these intelligence tests and we're gonna focus on two on two specific groups of students.
The first is students that test very well.
So IQ tests allow you to see who is more advanced and than their peers.
It can and when you can take these intelligence tests you're able to place these higher scoring children in higher level classes.
You can challenge them more in school and you can push them more than the average classes will because IQ can tell you how quickly people are able to take in knowledge.
It's not about knowing how much they already know.
It's about how quickly the pace of the class can go in order to move forward and in order to get as much information for those students as possible.
When talented students remain in classes that don't challenge them, when you have these students that score well but they stay in the same level of classes as their peers, they grow bored of school and they form bad habits that stick with them for the rest of their life because they're not seeing any reason to exert effort in the classroom.
They've already learned most of what they're going to learn far before their peers have learned it.
They don't need the same number of repetitions in courses.
They don't need the same amount of time and dedication to each individual subject.
They can move more quickly.
They can work more in depth.
We think that by having these IQ tests you allow these children to challenge themselves more and to gain more from the education system which we would say is a good thing.
You also if these IQ tests on the opposite end of the spectrum, also allow you to find students that may be more prone to struggle and this is good because firstly, it allows you to identify that students aren't just lazy, that they aren't just not trying.
You're able to see that there are real difficulties that people have taking in information.
You're able to single those students out.
You don't need to remove them from a classroom, but you can provide them with aids to help them after school.
You can provide them with aids in class so that they can have more one-on-one time when a teacher can't get to them and can't specialize with them and it allows them to have more substance to their courses.
You're better able to differentiate these students out and you're able to provide them with the aid they need because if you don't recognize who these students are, if you just treat them like everyone else they're going to constantly feel like they're stupid.
They're going to constantly feel like they're failing even though they're putting in the effort and it's all because the school environment isn't providing them with the tools they need to be successful.
These IQ test don't say that these students are lesser, they say to the school hey these students need a little extra help in order to be as successful as everyone else.
IQ tests can identify how people learn and what type of learners they are additionally and this means you can specialize classes based on the strengths and how individual students learn.
Whether you're an audio lerner, a visual learner, or you need to be doing something hands-on.
These are something that IQ tests can single out and can help make the classroom a better place not just for those that are highly successful or on the lower end of the spectrum, but all students that take these test.
For these reasons, we should not abolish intelligence tests.