We should not abolish the right to silence.
The right to silence is the ability when one is under arrest or speaking to an investigator or a police officer the right not to speak to that person.
We think that this is incredibly crucial given the intersection of state power within the criminal justice system and how this could be applied.
We think that abolishing the right to silence would lead to a massive abuse of state power and we think that this is simply unacceptable and unnecessary, so let's talk about why.
The state has an immense coercive apparatus and runs the criminal justice system that can detain you with little evidence of an actual crime committed.
They can bring in circumstantial evidence, they can bring in fragmental evidence, they can bring in eye witnesses who may not be reliable all ways to get you under arrest always to try and break you and investigate you further.
We and you have no ability to go against this system.
They can hold you detain you basically for forty eight hours without any sort of repercussion.
The state has immense leverage in the criminal justice system that defendants simply do not have.
They have warrants, they have publicly funded investigators, there are social biases that that push a jury to be more accepting of what the prosecution tells them than defense and the ability to structure the whole system and to build a whole system in a way that is favorable to the state because ultimately at the end of the day the state is the prosecution and you as an individual are by yourself as the defense.
You may have a defense attorney provided to you but these are people that are overwhelmingly overworked and incapable of providing an adequate defense to you and you do not have the ability to get a search warrant, you don't have the ability to have the investigative apparatus or the funding for the investigative apparatus that the state has.
The deck is massively stacked against the defense in criminal justice.
The balance for this is two key prongs of criminal justice: the first is a right to the presumption of innocence which puts the burden entirely on the prosecution to prove that you did something guilty, you do not need to show anything and you are presumed innocent.
And the second is the right to not self incriminate, the right to say that the right to not speak in order to preserve your own presumption of innocence.
Abolishing the right to silence gives immense power to override that second right.
It makes it the case that investigators, police officers can just ask you questions and when you refuse to answer it would be criminal, it would be something that they can point to and they can throw you in jail for independently and it puts a lot of pressure on you to speak it means you can perjure yourself you need to to a whole number of ways to self incriminate and we think that this also undermines that presumption to innocence because if you choose not speak with police it becomes an indicator rather than exercising your right an indicator of your guilt.
We think that this is wholly unacceptable given the fact that police already have so much leverage, prosecution has so much leverage in investigation to make their job much easier than it is for the defense and it only makes it that much easier to build a case against you if we remove this right.
It simply gives too much power to that course of apparatus which has been known to at times act in political and not legal ways and to do things that undermine undermine movements such as the civil rights movement to undermine movements such as the women's rights movement all these movements that were radical at their time but exposed crucial and fundamental flaws with the underpinnings of our democracy, with the underpinning of our system.
But the ability to the the abolition of the right to silence creates a system in which it is much much easier to crack down on these movements before they happen.
It makes it much more likely that they can do this because they can already arrest people with relative ease.
It means that it draws us closer to a state that has total control a state of fascism and I see no reason why this should be the case.
For these reasons we should not abolish the right to silence.