Water fluoridation brings more good than harm.
The process water of fluoridation is the process of adding fluoride to municipal water, so that people in a community are able to have more fluoride in their system, which has numerous health benefits, primarily though to dental health, into allowing yourself to have healthy teeth.
So, we think that this is that this debate is about whether or not there are substantive impacts that occur because of this, and when we think, when you analyze that all the impacts are are beneficial for our side.
So, what do we mean by this?
Firstly, in studies of fluoride usage.
While certain studies have shown that the use of fluoride in water can be unnecessary, and there's disagreement about the exact amount of benefit, that comes from having fluoride in one's water, it's, universally almost, accepted that fluoride doesn't provide any sort of harm to the individual that's consuming that fluoride, that even if it doesn't have the dramatic health benefits that people previously had believed existed, there isn't some sort of massive harm to consuming fluoride.
It's not very easy to over overdose on fluoride, to have too much fluoride in one's system, especially because of the amount that this fluoride is distilled within the water.
People are able to avoid this fluoride, if they choose to do so, because you can, as an individual, choose to drink bottled water, choose to get water from your own your own like plumbing system, and you can have different ways of getting the water you need, if you want to avoid this fluoride in the first place.
But, given, but that is beside the point.
Because when you weigh these factors against each other, there's no negative aspect of fluoride that really impacts individuals.
And, we think that that means that definitionaly, fluoride must do more good than harm, because even if it only does immoderate amount of good physically, this is still on balance a net gain, and therefore it's more good than it does harm.
But, we want to take this a second step further about whether or not this is something that the government should be doing, whether or not there's an action that, in its philosophical sense, is more good than harm.
And in that regard, we still think that water fluoridation does more good than harm.
We think that the job of government is to provide benefits to the people that you govern, is to provide things, that ensure that their quality of life is better than it otherwise would have been, and to do it in a way, that restricts their freedom in the least amount possible.
And we think in in these regards, this checks off in all of them.
We think that fluoride is very cost effective to the consumer, it costs very little money, about a dollar per person, per year, to put water to put fluoride in the water, which we don't think for any any developed society is a really high cost, to cover this type of process.
People are able to avoid it, and even if they don't avoid it, even if they can't use their freedom to avoid it, it is, at worst, going to have a negligible health benefit in their development, in their health, and in doing so has no does not impede their freedom in any other regard, that they're going to try and use it.
So given that this is the case, we don't think that this is something that the government is unjustified in doing, and we think rather it is the job that the government should actively pursue, doing benefits for the people, and in attempting to do that through water fluoridation, we think that this is exactly what the government is meant to do, bringing a benefit that can help the people, especially something that's much more difficult to do on a person to person basis.
You can't just put fluoride in the water system on an individual level, it needs to be systemic.
And given that that's the case, we think that this is the right arena for the government to be operating in, we think it's the right action for the government to be taking, and that on balance, it certainly does more physical good than harm, and that water fluoridation overall brings more good than harm.