We should ban organic food.
When we're talking about organic food we mean foods that apply certain standards ecological balance conserve biodiversity in their area as well as abstain from using certain pesticides and fertilizers in their farming, so why do we think that you should ban organic food?
Firstly, we think that there is a false advertising that comes with domestic food that also that immediately leads to a market loss because of the higher price that is being paid for these food.
There's no scientifically proven advantage to organic food.
There's no reason that organic food is necessarily more healthy for you, nor is it necessarily more likely to get the vitamins and nutrients that you need in a healthy life.
Organic food in the status quo is a label that individual companies are able to put on to their foods often without the regulation of the governments that provide these labels in the first place, so there are often countries, there are often systems by which farms can apply the organic label put into market without actually meeting the standards of organic food.
We think that you need to get additional oversight that also even when you do have these organic foods that are legitimate, when they have to get the additional oversight that leads them getting use labels of approval, it leads to higher prices being paid by consumers because there's regulation, there's regulation fees and other types of things that corporations and small farms need to pay in order to get approved and to get an actual label as organic food, which means that individuals are paying an ultimately higher price both because of the drive for organic food in the status quo but also because of the regulatory process going into it, when there's no scientifically proven benefit to organic food.
The second problem with organic food is that by not using pesticides and other types of things like this you lead to a wider spread of disease.
Why is this the case?
Pesticides exists to ensure that bugs and other insects can't pollute the can't pollute the vegetables and the other types of things that are growing on these farms.
And what this means is that that when you don't use these types of pesticides but when you have the allowance of organic foods being widely distributed in our markets it leads to a more likely chance that disease is going to be spread through these foods, which means that not only are you not getting organic food when you buy this type of thing you're not getting the health benefits that are supposed to be advertised but you're actually more likely to get sick from the organic foods that exist.
Why does the government have the right to ban in this instance?
We think that when there's a market failure and a asymmetry of information that exists in the market.
We think the government exists to step in and ensure that these asymmetries of information can be balanced, because individuals don't understand that organic food labels are often improperly applied and more often that the organic food simply doesn't have the benefit that is being advertised from these corporations and from these farms.
We think that the government has a right to ensure that its people are not falling for the falling for the false advertising that exists.
We also think that organic food tends to block out poor and underprivileged individuals and when more farms are striving to get the organic label because the craze exists to be an organic producer, we think what this means is that you have fewer producers producing cheaper cheaper foreign goods and cheaper vegetables, fruits, the types of things that ensure good nutrition for individuals, which means that given that healthy food is already often overpriced and out priced for lower economic classes we think that that only perpetuates even further when you allow the spread of the organic craze that exists in our society today to continue to go on, which means that nutrition nutrition failings in these sections of society are only likely to get worse, and we don't think that the government should stand idly by while that happens.
Given that organic food itself is no better than any other type of farmed food scientifically and that there's no and that the existence of the organic label allows for massive market failures and for the failures of protecting the lowest amongst us in our society, we think that you should ban organic food.