We should not ban herbal medicine.
To be clear, when we're talking about herbal medicine, and when we're talk about banning it, we're not saying that people shouldn't be informed about the fact, that herbal medicine hasn't been proven, we're not saying that, the government should crackdown on the ability to say, how you can and can't advertise these products.
What we're talking about, is whether or not you're going to choose, and force people, not to allow to use	this for their own gain.
Whether you're going to tell people that they can't own, possess, or use any of the products, that may in fact have some sort of beneficial impact on them, in which they may see as crucial to their well being.
When you have this type of debate, we think that's important to keep in mind, that regulation, and banning are two distinct but important things.
So, why do we think you should not bad herbal medicine?
We think that, as a state, the most important thing you can do is maximize people's bodily autonomy, and to maximize their liberty, and we think that this goes directly against the goal of the state.
We think that, no matter the state that you live in, people have a certain fundamental and inalienable right to how they're going to use their own body, and to what they're going to do with their own body.
And we think that, using herbal medicine, and choosing to use this type of medicine, is an entirely valid choice that an individual can make.
As long as there's, even if there isn't advertising to show that these types of things aren't effective, we think that it's generally well known that, these types of medication simply are not nearly as effective, or proven to be effective, or scientifically proven, as other sorts of products.
At that point, once people know what they're putting into their body, we think it's entirely fair play for them to choose to go with the unproven herbal medicines.
Am there are certain ways that these can actually be beneficial, such as the fact that certain plant materials do have an impact on a person's physiologically well being, and secondly, there's the placebo effect, which can have an impact on people's well being when their diseases are not being treated for in other ways, but they feel like they're getting some sort of better treatment, and this can lead to the body healing itself more quickly.
We think that, it's also important to recognize that the alternative isn't something that's all that great: the pharmaceutical industry has claimed lives, and has cost millions of people their well being, and their money over the course of the last decade.
Pharmaceutical abuses, something that's running rampant in in the united states, and amongst western world m which is leading to things like opioid addictions and heroin overdoses.
Given that this is the alternative, we think it's entirely reasonable, that people don't want to put pharmaceuticals into their body, and would rather take the option, and take the chance, of using herbal medicine.
Given that the risks that are run from not using herbal medicine, are, or through using herbal medicine, are that illnesses aren't treated, and that people get sick, these are the same risks that are run when people are put on killers, and other sort of pharmaceuticals, that if it's, if it goes poorly, they can be harmed, they can be addicted, and they can go on to do things like using heroin.
And, it's not like the comparative in the sense, is one that's drastically more likely, thousands and thousands of people get addicted to painkillers every single year, and we think that, this is something that's important to keep in mind.
While yes, herbal medicine is not proven, painkillers and other pharmaceuticals are proven to work with massive side effects, and we think that, when you're given those two choices, people should have the ability to choose what they're going to put into their own body.
We also think that, there are certain cultural connections that come with herbal medicine: the ability to use things that are strictly from the ground, and to use strictly that's things that strictly come out of nature, we think, are important to people's mental, but also cultural well being.
And that, given that all this is the case, there are other meaningful ways to ensure that people make informed decisions.
This is about whether or not people should be allowed to make that decision in the first place, and when that's the case, we think it's just clear that it goes against the purpose of the government to violate bodily autonomy in this way, and that this isn't the most drastically poor decision that someone can make, and given that this is the case, we definitely think that, herbal medicine should not be banned.