We should not abolish the olympic games.
So, in this round, we're gonna make two broad arguments about why we think the olympic games should not be abolished.
The first is about international cooperation and why we think the olympic games are beneficial in fostering international cooperation, and the second is about how many of the arguments against the olympics can be fixed through reform rather than through total abolition, and why we think that's better.
All right, so first on international cooperation.
Historically, the olympics has fostered international community and cooperation.
The olympics is one of the few times every year when the when the world gathers in a non-political sense.
Sure, there are summits at places like the united nations and during other conferences around issues like global warming, but generally the world doesn't meet on one stage in a non-political, non-confrontational setting.
We think that the olympic games provide ceremonies that show a united world, that, if nothing else, they symbolically present a view of the world in which people are willing to cooperate with each other and in which the hostilities in the external global affairs do not need to matter while they're out on the field, while athletes compete, and while individuals compete in a sportsmanlike manner, where they look at each other as equals and as competitors and as other human beings.
We think that this symbolically is aspirational and like other global events since the world cup, this desire to bring the world together and show the similarities between nations rather than the divisions, we think, is a generally positive perspective to provide on the world and a generally positive symbol to send.
Even if it doesn't do anything to move the world politically, even if it's not perfect in how it's run, we think it's good to have this symbolic gesture every four years, and it's certainly not worth abolishing it.
So, secondly, on those reforms.
We would say that the biggest harm of the of the olympics is for the host country.
You build extra stadiums that will never be used and end up being turned into bus depots and depots for cars, housing that will never be used again for the olympic village, and tourism money that simply does not balance it out.
It costs far more money to put the olympics on than you get when you have tourists in your country to see the olympics.
We think that none of this is necessary though.
What we would say is that there are many cities around the world, such as los angeles and paris and beijing, that already have the facilities to host the olympics.
They're simply big enough, they have enough sports stadiums, they have enough arenas, they have enough hotels, all these things that are enough to host the competitors and to actually put on the olympics without having to put out massive expenditures.
We would say that you could have a cycle of five or so cities around the world that host the olympics in a rotation system rather than putting it in developing countries, year after year, and forcing those countries to spend an extreme amount of their wealth, where there's a real tradeoff between putting on the olympics and giving their people welfare.
In places like the united states and eastern europe, or in western europe as and beijing, these places that have host the olympics recently and also have the facilities to do it again, we think that these these places are suitable to host it on a rotation.
And so you still foster that international cooperation, you still get that feeling of international community coming together, without developing without developing countries wasting a huge amount of resources.
And additionally, this prevents the worker abuse which has which has often become commonplace at olympic settings.
Because we think that this rotation system can alleviate most of the harms that the olympics bring, we think that the international cooperation and the symbol of international cooperation is worth keeping them running and for these reasons, we should not abolish the olympic games.