We should abolish temporary employment.
In this debate, when we're talking about employment, or temporary employment, we mean things like temp agencies that assign individuals, that are of low skill, to different sort of private sectors, in order for them to fill in for other people, that otherwise would have been in long term employment.
We think that, things like seasonal workers would get long term contracts, and guaranteed contracts over the course of many years, and if you're going to have be some sort of a freelance, or a contractor, we think that, you would have to have some sort of a long term contract with guarantees, based on completion of work etcetera.
So, not just at will employment, but firm contracts.
Okay, so why do we think that temporary employment in the status quo is problematic?
The first reason is that, there's a high a high amount of abuse amongst temporary workers.
Firstly, because there is such a because these jobs are generally low skill labor jobs, because they are something that could be filled in by a wide variety of people that temp agencies may have to offer.
We think that, these people are often the subject of very low wages, which means that they're doing jobs that, other people who would be working long time, or full time contracts, would be getting much higher wages for, simply because they aren't replaceable by an agency.
But more importantly, this means that perspective long term and full term employment contracts would be undermined by the existence of these markets.
We think that this means that, on balance you get fewer long term employment contracts, if you allow the the a option of temporary employment, temp agencies, to exist.
There's also very little control, as a temp, over the schedule you're going to work, and very little control of your hours, which means your employer can determine if they're going to overwork you, or if they're going to give you a fewer hours in a week, which means it's very difficult for you to actually plan for your job, to have some sort of financial plan, in which you have a regular income, and a normalized income, that you can plan your spending around, which we think is necessary for people to avoid things, like bankruptcy, and to avoid things like overspending, which should have dramatic harms in the long run.
You also rarely receive benefits and unpaid sick over time, unpaid sick time, all these things are regularly exploited through temporary employment, which people aren't given wages, and it only works to undercut a more competitive market, in which permanent employment, and long term contract employment, is the only norm.
So the second reason why we should abolish temporary employment is that the jobs themselves are bad, in a functional sense, for the people.
What we mean by this is that, because these are, firstly, very low skill employment, secondly, temporary, and therefore, have very few opportunities for advancement, and thirdly, because you're disassociated from your supervisor so greatly, it's very difficult to get things like referrals, and recommendations from previous employers, when trying to go to future jobs.
These jobs don't don't build a productive resonate for individuals to move into the future.
This means that, individuals are, on balance, less likely to get valuable skills, that they can use in other workplaces, and are less capable of using this time, in a way that will allow them to further benefit themselves in the future.
Temp jobs and things like this are stagnant in their very nature.
They don't allow for opportunities to advance, and we think that, by having temp jobs, it allows for band aid solutions to problems like poverty, and to problems like unemployment, because it allows people to be employed in the worst possible situations, in ways that stagnate their production, that stagnate their productive capabilities, but allows for numbers, like unemployment rates and jobs to be filled, that are necessary for society, that are necessary for the functioning of business, and it allows private corporations to undercut labor markets as well.
Given that this is the case, and that the jobs are not beneficial to the people in the long run, nor are they good jobs to have in the short run, we think that we should abolish temporary employment.