We should not ban targeted killing.
So in this debate we think we're mostly talking about the killing of non-citizens, those outside of the legal system of the state.
The reason for this is that when you are a citizen there are certain rights that are afforded to you.
There are constitutional rights that are afforded to you in a just state and when those rights are given to you those should not be violated no matter what action you've taken but there are threats such as terrorists and other non-state actors who are outside of the legal realm and we think in those instances in which they aren't citizens, targeted killings are perfectly fine.
So we would say that the number one priority of the government is to protect citizens and that based on that, targeted killings must be allowed.
We would say that the job of the state is first and foremost to protect its citizens.
If you think the state has any other other any other obligation to its citizens it cannot fulfill those obligations unless it firstly fulfills the obligation to protect the bodily autonomy and the physical well being of its citizens.
If you fail in doing that, the state fails in all other obligations.
States like the united states have the capability to act in certain situations in which targeted killing would prevent the deaths of other civilians specifically when a targeted killing can be attempted against a terrorist leader or some sort of member of a terrorist organization.
What is that capability?
Well on the ground you've intelligence gathering that allows you to get information directly from people that are in association with the target that you have in mind.
You've spy satellites that track enemy moves and track the movement of that target and you covert operations online that allow you to gather more information about what that person's activity may be even inside information like their exchanges with other terrorist actors.
All of this provides two things that are crucial for this attack to be successful and for this attack to be just.
First, it provides knowledge that that targeted individual is probably guilty of attacking the state or its citizens or that they are planning on doing such an attack.
Because you have all this intelligence that you're gathering, you're able to get the same type of proof that you would in in a court if this person was a citizen put forward to show that they are guilty however, because they're not a citizen you don't have that burden, you don't have to prove that they're guilty but in order to justly take someone's life, in order to justly carry out a targeted killing, we think that you should have this proof and clearly the united states and other advanced countries have the apparatus in order to do this.
Secondly, there's a knowledge that the attack is going to is that this targeted killing will be in the correct place and will be successful.
Whether it's through a drone strike or whether it's through a team of navy seal's carrying out the targeted killing.
Because you're able to track this person's movements, you're able to ensure that this killing will be successful and that you won't need to take out any undue civilian casualties.
So we would say that failing to carry out this killing may seem like the most just thing to do because there's been no due process, there's no been there's been no ability for this person defend themselves and their actions, but we would say that again because this person is a citizen there's no rights that ensure that that person must go through that due process even if we would like in an ideal world for that person to go through that process but failing to carry out the attack the targeted killing is likely going to lead to further terrorist action.
It's more likely to be used to a type of attack that's going to lead to the deaths of of citizens of your own state.
If the state could carry out a targeted killing and does not do so and that person goes on to carry out a terrorist attack, the state is directly culpable for the harm on their citizens.
It's not just that the state failed to uphold its obligations, it's that the state is actively culpable for the deaths of those citizens.
We think that that is entirely outside the realm for the state to allow and because of this, we should not ban targeted killings.