We should not ban telemarketing.
We think that the government is only justified in using its coercive apparatus for the end goal of maximizing individual autonomy and individual freedom.
Because the people of the state cannot consent to the state in a meaningful way, we think that without this sort of maximization of freedom as the modus operandi for the government, it becomes tyrannical and unjust.
Despite the fact that many people find telemarketing annoying, we think that it's not legitimate to ban something simply for that reason, and we think that many of the arguments the government provides just does not warrant a sufficient reason for a ban.
The first argument they make is that this is a problematic method of sales because telemarketing relies on like catching people unnformed and making them make decisions on the spot, and it's coercive.
We think that this is just hugely hyperbolic.
First and foremost, most people just do not answer the phone for telemarketers, which is why telemarketing is just dying in the status quo anyway.
It's cause you look at your phone, you see an eight hundred number, and you don't answer.
People just have caught on to the idea of telemarketing, and it has largely become ineffectual, which is why we just don't think it's necessary to create this type of ban and clearly shows that it isn't coercive.
But also, all salespeople rely on you like being less informed than you otherwise could be.
All salespeople act in kind of sneaky ways like this, and we don't we just don't think that this is a sufficient reason to ban this sort of like this this form of selling as opposed to like any other myriad of actions.
They say it's unnecessary for telemarketing to happen when other avenues for sales and marketing exist that are just as effective.
Just because something is unnecessary is not a sufficient justification to ban it.
We think that most things in the world are probably unnecessary, but the government being able to have the power to ban something for that reason leads to a tyrannical government and leads to a government that has much more power than we think is justified by the people.
The second argument they make, our response is basically along the same lines: that this is just annoying, that people don't like this.
Again, you could make this claim about most things.
Many people can find a large amount of things annoying, but we think that the government acting simply because something is a nuisance, rather than actually a harm, does not justify it in making this ban.
If you can point to some sort of study, or sign, or real-life impact of of telemarketing create like creating a significant third-party harm to the point where you have to shut down an industry, maybe this wouldn't be true.
But simply because something is annoying does not mean that the government can make this case.
Finally, the government side says that there is an issue of insecurity with telemarketing and that there are a number of like hackers that are like listening into our phone so they can hear when you tell your your telemarketer your credit card bill.
So, we just deny that this is a major problem in the status quo, firstly, because if you're someone with the technology to go after telemarketers and like hack into their phone lines, you're probably going to choose a better avenue for getting wealth than going after telemarketers.
Like telemarketing just isn't a massive business anymore, and we think that you probably rather use that ability to go after like a website that has a significant amount of traffic or go after individuals that are wealthy for blackmailing them.
Like this just doesn't seem like a logical avenue for hackers or other people to take, and we think that this is also non-unique to most other forms of commerce that we do.
Look at places like target getting hacked.
Look at major financial institutions getting hacked.
Like this is just such a marginal instance of the potential for this harm that we don't think that it is a sufficient argument to ban to ban this action.
And for these reasons, we should not ban telemarketing.