We should not abandon the insanity plea.
We're gonna start this debate by talking about, how the insanity plea functions in the court, and explain how it's crucial to being able to carry out justice in a fair manner.
Recognize that the insanity plea is not some sort of thing that someone can enter, that automatically allows them to get away with crime, and it's not just a plea, that there's some sort of mental illness that you have.
It's not a stigma against mental illness.
What an insanity plea is, is it changes what the trial is about.
It accepts that the crime happened as it was carried out, and is now a discovery into the culpability of the actor.
What happens in the trial is that experts testify to whether or not the person had the mental capacity to choose what action they were underdoing, to control the action, to understand whether or not the action was a bad action, to establish things that are important to the criminal justice system, such as one's mens rea, or their mind, or their guilty mind, to establish whether they could have had such a guilty mind, which is necessary in determining guilt overall.
So, why is the insanity plea importance for justice?
We think that guilt and justice requires culpability.
What we mean by this is that, in order to be held responsible and guilty of an act, you must be culpable for having that act be done.
We think that, in order to be culpable, the standard should not just be whether or not you were the physical entity that carried out an act, because we think that, this is a standard that leaves context out of the question, which means that, for example, if an innocent was was forced to kill someone, in order to save their own life, the context that exists would not be able to allow that person to be free in a just form, but would rather require that that person was harmed, because they were physically responsible for carrying out the death of another person.
So, we think that context is important, and we think that one cannot be responsible for their action, if they weren't able to choose what action was undertaken.
We think that choice, and free will, is ultimately what the criminal justice system seeks seeks to find when it's seeking justice, to see if one's free will is what caused the event to happen, if one freely chose to commit a crime.
In instances in which someone is mentally incapable of doing so, we don't think that that person should be held responsible.
We recognize the rights of the victims, we recognize the harm that has been done, but we think it's unfair to punish someone to inflict harm onto another human being, to to restrain their freedom, and the thing that essentially makes them human, if they aren't responsible for the action that's been done.
We think that, this is analogous to, example, if a crime was committed in a community, but the criminal couldn't be found, but it would be cathartic, for the community and the victim, if they could choose someone amongst themselves who would be the fall person, who could take the blame and who the community could look at for recompense for the crime that's been committed.
But, just because someone, as we've explained earlier, physically carried out a crime, does not make them guilty in the full sense, and in punishing a person, who might enter an insanity plea, someone who is mentally unstable, to punish them for the actions that they have undertaken, isn't carrying out justice, it's a further extension of just revenge, of communal revenge against act that's happened, that's misplaced.
We think in to in doing so, in not allowing the insanity plea, you don't allow actual justice to be carried out in instances, when the insanity plea is required, in instances in which people were truly not responsible for the actions that they physically carried out.
In such an instance, we think that's unfair to restrain someone's freedom, by putting them into jail, by making them pay recompense to society, because they have no desert claim to the recompense that's coming to them.
They didn't earn the punishment that's coming towards them, and it's simply an irrational, or an arbitrary placement, of the hurt that society feels after a crime.
We think that given that this is the case, we think we outweigh the the needs of the person who would be restrained, the long term harms of the individual, who would be sentenced and convicted without the insanity plea, over the victims, that can come with recompense in other areas, such as them being compensated in knowledge, for the harms they've done by the community, which is what people fully want, when they bring individuals to court in the first place.
Given that this is the case, we believe we should not abandon the insanity plea.