We should abolish the double jeopardy offense.
So, what we think is important in this round is to recognize that the principle of double jeopardy simply doesn't make sense, and that we think it is principally bad for law and for justice to allow the double jeopardy defense to be a thing.
We think that we would prefer a world in which, if there is a trial and someone is found to be innocent, that, if there is an investigation that reveals that more evidence is available, that prosecutors can bring forth the trial once again, and that you would obviously, as a defendant, have the same rights, the same respect, the same rights and respect given to you in the future.
We just simply don't think that, if you are guilty of an offense, you should be able to walk away, because jury got it wrong, and that's what double jeopardy allows to have.
So firstly, why this is principally bad, and second, why we don't think this is going to be abused in a meaningful way.
So firstly on principle.
We think, that justice requires seeking truth, and that the timeline of trials is often expedited, because evidence tends to disappear, or break down over time.
So, what we think is the problem is that there, in the status quo, there are pragmatic issues that cut against the need for true justice, for principally just outcomes.
This means that people are often rushed to trial, because they know that if they don't rush to trial, that evidence could disappear, that someone could get away, that all these things could happen, that make your case deteriorate, and therefore people prosecutor specifically are rushed to trial.
What this means is that it's often the case, that people if they'd been given more time to gather evidence, if they had been given more time to plan their prosecution, that they otherwise could have found someone guilty, they could have proved that someone was guilty beyond a a reasonable doubt, but they simply didn't have the time or the ability to do so.
We think that this is a problem, because if you aren't able to determine the truth of an outcome, if you aren't able to take the time to really figure out what happened in a crime, it's impossible to carry out justice, only the veneer of justice.
And therefore, we think that if justice dictates that a prior trial is incorrect, because there is clear and compelling evidence that the result of the jury was incorrect, then we think it's clearly the case, that this person still committed a moral wrong, they still did something bad, and that the truth of the matter is that this person must be punished, because otherwise, society is complicit in their wrongdoing, society is willing to allow an offender go free.
We don't think that's fair.
We think the justice system can get a decision wrong, especially with an amateur jury, this doesn't mean the facts of the case are different.
Criminals go free, and they're more more likely to commit crimes in the future.
So, people that have already committed criminal offenses are in circumstances, in which they're more likely to commit criminal offenses in the future, and so if you let someone go free, even though it's very clear that they are guilty, we think you're more likely to put society in danger.
That goes against the obvious rights of the innocent in society.
So, three reasons why we don't think that this is likely to be abused.
One, trials are very expensive.
It costs a lot of money and a lot of resources to gather a jury, to put together a courtroom, to put together evidence, to bring in expert witnesses, to do all these things, trials are just a a very costly and very expensive process, that we don't think would be used unless there is clear evidence that someone got away with a crime.
Secondly, prosecutors care about their reputation, they care about how they're viewed within the courtroom, how they're viewed in the criminal justice system, and therefore we don't think prosecutors are likely to try to bring forward a case for a second time, unless they're very confident that they will be able to get a conviction.
This is why a lot of cases don't go to trial the first time, it's because prosecutors are afraid they won't be able to get a conviction.
So we don't think that this is going to be used on cases, in which it's not clear if you could get a conviction.
And finally, we you need new evidence to open the case, so you couldn't just retry someone immediately after a case have been ended.
It would only be if new evidence came forward, that make this clear.
And, just because you got new evidence, from a case, after the trial ended, doesn't mean that the evidence isn't a preponderance of the facts, it doesn't mean that that evidence doesn't hold value about the truth of a crime, and it doesn't mean that that evidence isn't meaningful.
But given that you need new evidence, we think that you're unlikely to go to trial, unless this meaningful new evidence comes forward, and all these other conditions are met.
So, we don't think that the justice system is going to plague people that get away every single time someone is found innocent.
We think it's only going to be used in very limited circumstances, but that those limited circumstances are crucial for ensuring justice is carried out.
This is why we should abolish the double jeopardy defense.