We should not increase the fuel tax.
So we have two broad arguments that we're going to make about why increasing the fuel tax would be bad, the first is because such a tax would harm the consumer and not the industry, and the second is about how other taxes that are more progressive are available and why that's preferable.
So first, under this argument about how it harms the consumer not the industry.
We would say that the point of a fuel tax, specifically a carbon tax like this one, is that is that we need to use less carbon.
In order to prevent global warming from doing the most damage as possible we need to reduce our carbon emissions, we need to reduce our fuel emissions.
But this targets that goal, we would say, in the wrong way.
We recognize that we need to make that change but we think that there are other preferable ways of making that change.
This doesn't tax the industry.
It just sits caps it sets caps such as other practices could, such a setting caps on their use, limiting drilling, all these types of things.
This just passes the cost on to consumers because if you tax the industry in this way it makes costs more expensive for consumers in the long run.
What does this mean?
Right now the infrastructure for people to have alternatives to carbon fuel, such as electric vehicles, solar powered panels, and solar powered battery packs for their buildings and for their houses, these types of projects lack infrastructure.
There's no real there's no major infrastructure in the status quo that would ensure that consumers can transition off of their behavior.
They can't realistically shift their behavior even with this tax.
Which means you're just costing more money for consumers to do the same things they otherwise were going to do anyway and therefore you're not actually cutting any sort of carbon that's being used, any sort of fossil fuels that are being used in the state.
We think what you're actually just doing is raising money in a way that primarily impacts the middle and lower class or at least disproportionately.
This is because even if you institute a tax on fuel even if you do even if you institute a tax on fuel that is apparently flat, this means that for the poorest people that are using this fuel, that are using it to drive their cars, to heat their houses, to pay their utility bills, all these things, that the people that are the worst off are the ones that end up being impacted the most.
That's the nature of a of a flat tax.
It's necessarily regressive because if it has the same if it has the same numerical burden on each individual the real burden is strongest on those that have the least amount of money to actually spend on their taxes.
And that's why our second argument is about how other taxes are available that are more progressive, that don't put the burden primarily of those with the least.
The poor didn't create climate change, the masses didn't create climate change, and the harms of carbon use primarily the benefits that accrued from those harms went to the wealthiest in society and we think therefore the wealthiest should have the most to bear.
One thing that you could do in order to prevent this is to increase the tax that exists on the wealthy.
What you could do with this is then take the increased money and build up that infrastructure that gives real alternative options to consumers.
Build up an electric grid that isn't run on carbon.
Build up the infrastructure for real solar powered housing and real electric vehicles.
You could also have a tax for ownership of shares in fuel industry companies.
These are both things that target the beneficiaries of fossil fuel use much more directly than a fuel tax would and allows you to generate more revenue to treat the infrastructure to actually shift behavior of people using fossil fuels.
For these reasons we should not increase the fuel tax.