We should disband amnesty international.
Amnesty international is a global organization based out of the UK with the primary purpose of upholding human rights and doing so through watchdog practices, like publishing reports about how individual individual countries rank compared to each other in terms of upholding rights and by publishing stories and putting out news involving human rights violations in particular circumstances.
So we think there are two we think that generally upholding human rights is a fine standard, but we think the principles by which amnesty international does this is flawed, and their practices as well are flawed.
So let's first talk about their reporting and why we think it's unfair.
Amnesty is an organization with a highly political mission.
They have a view of human rights that is very black and white.
Amnesty international views any sort of human rights violation as something that is irredeemably bad in that there are fundamental rights that cannot be undermined by a state for any reason whatsoever.
This is a very strong political statement and is something that may sound intuitively fine but is not generally accepted by all countries and all leaders in the world.
This political mission leads to amnesty wanting to amend what they perceive as violations of human rights more than they care to investigate what happened fairly.
This has led to numerous states denouncing amnesty international, including major democracies like australia and the united states, and these denunciations claim that amnesty failed to tell the full story of what was happening.
And it seems reasonable that this is something that amnesty international could conceivably do.
It's an organization with a political mission, and the way that you further that political mission is to make these instances seem as bad as possible, that the human rights violations are as overtly and obviously problematic as possible, that there's no gray area there.
And the way that you find gray area is by doing full investigative reporting and understanding the reasons why these violations are happening, not just the fact that they are happening.
Given that this is the case, we don't think that what amnesty international, how it stands for human rights, is something that is fair to these countries, and ultimately undermines their purpose.
So the second thing that we think that we want to talk about is just cause for detainment, just cause for these human rights violations.
This black and white ideology is generally incorrect and therefore, amnesty's views of human rights is not one that we should perpetuate.
That is our basic understanding.
We think that rights are simply a construct, and they're given power and meaning only within that construct, which means that when people violate that construct in one way or another, they may be deserving of having their rights removed altogether or minimized because they consented into a system where that construct will be upheld only if they choose not to violate it, only if they choose to uphold it for all.
That's how the construct can have any power to begin with.
And, yes, there are certainly instances in which people are just unfairly stripped of their rights, where true atrocities are occurring, and true human rights violations are just overtly clear.
But we think that that's not the majority of these cases, and we think that there are many reasons, such as security, why states violate these rights.
And that's one of the main reasons that these things happen: is to uphold national security and detain potential threats, often terrorist threats.
These are just reasons to take these actions, because the government has an overriding responsibility to its citizens to ensure their safety first and foremost.
And given the case that these types of people that are detained, terrorist actors, dangerous threats to the state, we think that if they're willing to violate that construct to such a great degree, it is not unreasonable to strip them of the rights afforded to them by their construct.
Amnesty refuses to recognize these gray areas but instead tries to rally international condemnation of states acting in their citizens' best interest, which we think is fundamentally unjust.
For these reasons, we should disband amnesty international.