We should not abandon disposable diapers.
In this round, we're gonna make a few main arguments about why we think disposable diapers are something that are a necessary part of our society in many regards.
So, many people, firstly, that argue against disposable diapers do so with the idea of pollution in mind.
They do so with the idea that current diapers, current disposable diapers, aren't biodegradable so they end up in landfills.
They they add pollution to our society because you're not just putting these diapers into the landfills which themselves contain chemicals, but you're also putting waste and fecal matter and you're just letting it rot.
These things can seep into groundwater.
The matter's problematic, but that isn't an argument against disposable diapers in and of themselves.
Firstly, with our growing scientific advancements, we think it's certainly possible that, moving forward, these disposable diapers have the ability to change and be redesigned in order to do things like become biodegradable, to do things like have fewer harmful chemicals.
And our disposal process of these diapers can also change, ensuring that these are being stored in areas where they where it's not going to seep into the groundwater, in which dangerous pollutants aren't being exposed to people's drinking water or into the environment writ large.
So we think that that is not a reason to abandon disposable diapers altogether.
But what are the positive benefits of disposable diapers?
Well, as silly as it may sound, look at the lives of parents.
Parents have to do a tremendous amount of work, not just to support themselves and their family but also to provide a quality upbringing for a child, and children are a handful in and of themselves.
You could work a full-time job just taking care of a single child, meeting the demands of that child, not just their demands from like a physical level but also the fact that these children are growing emotionally and mentally, and there simply is a lot of work involved with being a parent.
Disposable diapers have an immense ease of use that can't be overstated.
Yes, it's possible that you could just, you know, use a a cloth linen or something like that as a diaper, but you have to wash these things over and over again.
You can't just wash them in with your normal clothes because you're then exposing your clothes to fecal matter and to urine and these things that you don't want in your laundry.
So you have to wash these things on the side, that takes time, that takes up time.
Maybe you run out of these things and you have to stop whatever you're doing to go immediately rinse off a diaper in order to provide a new one for the for the infant.
This is just a tremendous amount of effort and we think disposable diapers, especially if they can improve in the ways we already discussed, are a very valuable option.
Finally, these disposable diapers are, at least, sanitary every time.
Because they haven't been exposed to fecal matter or urine previously, you know that they're clean.
You know that your child isn't going to be exposed to any sort of bacteria from previous uses, which is something that you can't guarantee when you're using reusable linen diapers.
Again, yes, parents can wash these things but there's no guarantee that they're going to be able to do that well, especially under the immense amount of stress and time that parents have, the limited amount of time that parents have in their day-to-day lives.
We think it's just simply safer to use the more sanitary option of disposable diapers than it is to use reusable linen diapers, which is the primary alternative to disposable diapers in the status quo.
Because these fibers can be improved, because they have immense ease of use, and because of their sanitation, we should not abandon disposable diapers.