We should not ban genetically modified crops.
So in this debate we have two main arguments as to why this ban would be unjust and generally problematic for the public.
The first is that there are simply no public harm to GMOs and for this reason there doesn't really make any sense to ban these things, and the second is that these are actually quite good and necessary for our food supply and the long term sustainability of the human population.
Okay, so firstly, on public harm: while many people believe that genetically modified crops are harmful there's no scientific evidence to support that claim.
There are some studies that have come out that show that GMOs can have some negative side effects but this is like when people come out with climate change denial studies that show that humans aren't capable er humans aren't the cause of global warming as we currently understand.
These are minority studies and the vast amount of studies that show genetically genetically modified crops are perfectly healthy for human consumption and don't cause any major harms either to the ecosystem or to people that are consuming these things.
And because of this we think that there's a massive amount of hype around GMOs a a massive amount of fear but this is the result of fear mongering largely from organic food producers and other natural food producers that want to open their market more broadly.
So we've been using unnatural selection and other processes to select and breed crops for centuries.
This is simply the next step.
It's not only are we choosing these products based on what's going to get the best deal but now we can actually more predictably understand what that yield is going to look like and we can more better design that yield so that it meets what people need.
We think that basic oversight can ensure that GMOs don't produce hazardous side effects in the future.
So even if people are afraid that the studies are wrong and in the future we're going to find that there are some sort of harms to GMOs there are massive amounts of oversights, government oversights, that already exist to monitor food production to ensure that food production is safe for human consumption, safe to go to market.
We think that all these things can be applied to GMOs without having to ban them outright.
We simply think that the ban is not justified because there's no harm that corresponds with this problem.
So why is this actually a necessary thing for our food supply?
With a growing population, GMOs are crucial to human sustenance and survival.
GMOs are products that are able to be grown that bear more fruit, that bear a larger yield year over year, and allows these fruits to have more nutrients.
It's a way of producing better crops for human consumption.
And given that the human population has already reached seven billion, is then expected to balloon to nine billion by twenty fifty, it's simply the case that we don't have enough food in the status quo to actually feed all the people on our planet.
GMOs make it easier for us to do these things because we can produce food that has a higher yield, food that grows in more hazardous environments, and food that requires less water which also masses our need to actually produce food in environments that are changing due to climate change.
GMOs are all around a win win.
They ensure that we can get larger yields, crops that are more rigorous and more easily more easy to grow in more hazardous conditions.
Banning stunts the growth of the GMO industry and the ability to produce better crops in the future.
It leaves the door open for higher food prices for famine and starvation.
All of these things are massive negative externalities and the negative externalities of GMOs themselves are so minuscule that it simply does not does not meet a basic cost benefit calculus.
For these reasons we should not ban genetically modified crops.