Assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.
What we think this debate is largely about as the proposition seems to agree, is specifically physician assisted suicide which is suicide in which a person kills himself with the aid of a physician overseeing the process.
We think that, we wanna first talk about these situations in wich this is primarily done in order to frame the debate.
We think that the the vast majority of instances of physician assisted suicide occur in instances in which people are terminally ill, or are ill in such a way in which they have an immense amount of pain with very little likelihood of them being able to get better in the foreseeable future.
We think that physician assisted suicide allows for these people to end their life in a way that allows them to die with dignity.
So firstly we're gonna talk about the right to die.
While the right to life is incredibly important and allows for the the basic foundations of a liberal order, we think that life in and of itself is not a definite good.
We don't think it is an over arching utile thing to be alive.
Rather, we think that the value of life is determined by how someone is able to live that life.
We think that a life in which people are able to use their senses, in which they're able to express their preferences in a meaningful way or in which they're able to live without pain and able to express their freedom, is a life that has value and a life that is gainfully utile, but we think that in instances in which people only experience pain and suffering, there's no inherent utility to what exists in that moment.
Some may say that suffering is a necessary part of what's good in their life, but I would say that suffering is only good if it achieve some sort of end afterwards, if it allows you to learn a lesson or gain some valuable experience that allows you to use that suffering constructively.
But that's not the type of suffering we're talking about when we're talking about physician assisted suicide.
We're talking about suffering that has no end other then ultimately for these people to be dead in a number of months or possibly years.
We think that in these instances, it's important and it's crucial that people are able to use their autonomy and use their free choice to choose to end their life, and to ensure that they don't have to suffer unnecessarily moving into the future.
Further, we think if you were to criminalize physician assisted suicide, it would only lead to this being done in a worse way.
We think that oftentimes, individuals who are terminally ill and suffering are desperate and are hoping to just end their life in any way, and are likely to take their life in their own hands.
But we think physician assisted suicide checks for a number of problems.
Firstly, a physician is able to ensure that someone isn't being driven by a mental illness or sense of depression and they're able to do a psychological evaluation on the person to ensure that the decision they're making with their free choice is one done under a sane mental state.
Furthermore, it insures that people , it ensures that individuals are not being coerced into doing what they're doing.
We think that sometimes when people have massive medical bills as is the case when people are terminally ill, they may feel pressured by their family to take their own life whether outwardly or subconsciously.
In these instances, we think that medical professionals are best able to do some sort of interview with an individual to be able to get their state of mind and to ensure that they're doing this in full consciousness of what it means, and they're not doing it in the state of coercion.
Otherwise, without physician assisted suicide, people may be coerced into taking their own life, which we think is a much worse end than allowing people to willfully and with full knowledge take their life when it has no good to be done moving into the future.
We also think it's likely to just be safer in the sense that while in an oxymoronic sense in that people are less likely to harm themselves in trying to kill themselves if they're not committing suicide from self harm but rather through physician assisted method which ensures that it's done in a relatively painless method, and it wasn't done in a way that lingers and harms the person for a long period of time because we think that would be wholly counterproductive to the point of trying to end someone's suffering through physician assisted suicide.
At the end of the day, we don't think that people are being largely coerced by this, we think we actually check for coercion and that we allow people to fully express their autonomy and their freedom when we allow for some physician assisted suicide in these instances.
And for this reason, assisted suicide should not be a criminal offense.