We should not disband the united nations.
So what we don't we want to talk about firstly is that in this debate we think people often focus on the fact that the UN has systemic issues that currently exist.
We think that flaws that the flaws that exists within the united nations doesn't mean that their ideals aren't good.
Ideals such as global governance in which each government and each sovereign state is given the ability to dictate the global forces that direct how globalization will impact the world and who gets to be the winners under globalization.
Decision making for things such as environmental regulations and labor regulations in world trade that can be directed through the UN general assembly and can be facilitated discussions that can be facilitated by the UN itself, cooperation and protection of human rights insuring that no matter where you live there are certain basic rights that all people are given based on their based on their common humanity and not just based on the luck of whatever state they happen to be in.
We think that these are good goals that the UN strives to achieve and with certain reforms, which we're going to discuss, we think the UN can be effective in doing these things.
So first, we're going to talk about what the UN actually does and the good things that it does.
Firstly, united nations is excellent in trying to bring justice into areas in which justice is so hard to achieve.
That is in post conflict societies the UN has been integral in setting up tribunals following genocide such as than in rwanda, in conflicts such as that in the former yugoslavia, but also in recent years has done things in sierra in sierra leone and in other countries around the world to try and ensure that justice can come even after conflict or even in situations in which the government itself has been corrupt.
It also sends peacekeepers to protect civilians and ensure that in war zones in which there are two sides that aren't particularly concerned with the safety and comfort of civilians, that there are places where civilians can be sanctuary cities and other things like this in which civilians can ensure that they are protected even when the state around them has fallen apart.
The UN is also incredibly good at collecting and distributing food and medical aid.
Especially with the refugee crisis that we've seen over the course of the last decade following the the fighting that's going on in the middle east involving isis in syria and all the refugees that are coming from that region.
The UN has been integral in ensuring that these people not only are provided with camps where they can live but also with food, medical supplies, and other basic necessities to ensure that even though they are living oftentimes in the worst conditions, they're getting what they need to survive.
And without the united nations being there to facilitate and dictate where aid is going we think this process of global charity and global coordination and doing these charitable goods often would go under done.
We also think it's a global platform for discussions about global issues like poverty and climate change.
There are certain issues that the united that the world and united front faces such as climate change, and we think the united the united nations in the general assembly allows for a platform for even the smallest countries to speak on these issues and at least have a place where they can have their voices heard on somewhat equal footing with other countries.
So what are we think are reforms that can be positive?
Firstly we would democratize the security council.
We would restrict the ability for veto power of the five nations that currently have it, and we would allow for a more democratic use of how peacekeepers are going to be used and try and open it up so that not just the five power players following the fall of germany in world war two would be the ones that are making these decisions.
We think that this process being more democratic would mean that the UN wouldn't be used to persecute countries that are simply smaller countries but rather could be more democratic in enforcing justice.
We also think there are ways to give more weight to smaller nations ensuring that within the general assembly in things like trying to form sort of resolutions and how the united nations is going to respond to different crises, we think smaller nations can be given more privilege, more voting power can caucus together.
We think these are ways in which small nations can stop being whipped by the united nations but rather use it for the what it was meant to be in the first place.
A spear a sphere of global cooperation that can help to unify small and large nations alike.
And for these reasons we should not disband the united nations.