Organ donation should not be mandatory.
When we're talking about organ donation we think what we're primarily talking about is post mortem organ donation, so when individuals give their organs up after they have died or after they're deceased, we think that's primarily what we're talking about when we mean mandatory organ donation.
We don't get this is around about whether or not full control over their body should be forced to give up their organs.
We think that that is kind of an extraneous debate and we think this one is much more substantive.
So why do we think that given that someone has died they still have the right to their organs and they should not be mandated to give up their organs?
So first thing we're going to talk about: where rights come from, why rights extend to this person, or extend to other actors that would want this to be the case, and then finally we're going to talk about some extraneous points about religion and trust in the state.
Firstly we think that rights essentially come from community participation.
Now when individuals are part of the community and they do their job within a community, whether that's being a person that works in a specific business or whether it's coaching a like high school basketball team, whatever the thousands of ways that someone can participate in community, we think that that is the way that someone earns their rights.
By empathizing with and gaining empathy with other members within a political community by participating in that community and by recognizing the rights that are afforded to others, we think through that process of recognition others indeed afford rights on to you.
And that you earned those rights through participation in the community.
We think that this is likely the case because when people violate those compacts within the community we think that they lose their rights to an extent, but as still members of the community they are afforded basic rights.
This is why people better in prison are still given basic rights because they've earned that through their recognized place in our community.
So what does this means for a deceased person?
We don't think that a person necessarily gives up those rights claims after they've died.
We think they've still done all the things to earn that type of recognition within our community and as such we respect it.
But more importantly we think that this via post mortem autonomy actually is something that is going to violate the rights of individuals who are still alive.
Why is this the case?
We think that there are a variety of reasons in which people are uncomfortable with organ donation.
The status quo.
Whether or not it's a good, is irrelevant.
The fact is that individuals feel like it is a violation of their person-hood.
It for instance various religious individuals believe that if they have to give up their organ or if they are tainted in some way, if their body is changed in some way after death they won't be accepted into heaven, they won't be able to be buried where they choose to be buried.
These are all violations that people that make people uncomfortable with.
We think that if there are living individuals who do not want their deceased relatives to have their organs forcibly removed from them, that if you go against that you violate their particular rights to how their to make sure that their last wishes are going to be respected.
It shows the society that individuals last wishes won't be respected post death and we think that violates their peace of mind, it violates their right to plan for their future while they're alive.
And we think that that is a violation of individual's liberty while they are still alive which means that this type of forced organ donation is immoral and irresponsible from the government even though someone has already died.
Finally we think that when you do this type of program you lose the people lose trust with their government.
Why is this the case?
When doing something unpopular we think government expends political capital in order to do this.
We think that in an instance that is so visually striking and so striking to the common person, that you're going to take organs from someone after they have died, that you're going to violate someone's the privacy in the body of someone who's just died, we think that that is an image that people simply will not be comfortable with and given that this is an unjust rights violation, that you're violating the rights of both of both of the decease1d and the deceased's loved ones who are still alive, we think that this is only is only going to dilute trust with the government as it exists and we don't think that it's worth the cost of taking organs from individuals when you can simply do things like incentivize and educate people to become active organ donors themselves.
And for these reasons we do not think that organ donation should be mandatory.