We should not ban extreme sports.
Well the definition of extreme sport is up for debate within the round, we think that it's clear that an extreme sport contains any possible number of things such as rock climbing, skydiving, bungee jumping, things that tend to involve either large heights or extreme impressions on the body or extreme things that you force your body to do in order to successfully do whatever it is that this sport requires.
So we have a few reasons as to why we don't think that you should ban extreme sports.
The firstly is about consent and the second one is about how this simply false in line extreme sports fall in line with what sport generally is about.
So firstly why you shouldn't ban: we think that when the government bans there's only they're only a few justifications for why this can be the case.
Firstly it might be the case that what the government is banning is so extremely erroneous to society it causes so much harm to society that there's no way that regulation can solve this can solve the harms that this thing is causing and you have to ban it.
Well we don't think that's the case when it comes to extreme sports.
For the most part extreme sports don't lead to fatalities they may lead to injuries of a wide variety, but we don't think that the harm that's caused by extreme sports is really that dramatic.
We think that this is the case likely because people have to pay to do these types of sports, there's liability involved with doing these types of sports, if there was so much danger involved we don't think that the profit that comes from being someone that runs a skydiving or bungee jumping business or something along those lines, we don't think the profit would be high enough in order to outweigh the harm that would come from the liability cost or the costs that come from maybe lawsuits or things like that, if these sports were so extreme.
So we don't think that the the sports existing themselves causes that dramatic a level of harm.
The second reason why you may be able to ban something is because of an asymmetry of information.
If the government sees that people are doing things because they don't know any better and there's no better way to educate them then we should simply ban the thing because there's an asymmetry of information that doesn't allow people to make smart choices.
Why do we think that isn't the case here?
Well extreme sports are rather popular.
Things such as the x-games exist to publicize extreme sports, people understand that there's risk involved when you do things like jump out of a plane or jump off a bridge, there are waivers that you're required to sign, there's other sorts of forms that you're required to sign to show that you understand the risk involved.
So given that this is the case we don't think that this asymmetry exists that would force the government to ban what's occurring given that these are rational agents, the people that choose to do these types of things, that we should give them the full respect that we would give anyone else that's making a choice about how they're going to use their body.
We simply think it is unfair to those people that choose to take on these risks, that choose to seek thrill, that they're not able to do so.
So we don't think that there's a justified reason to ban this to ban extreme sports aside from pontifications about danger that doesn't really exist.
Secondly why we think that extreme sports simply fall in line with what sports are.
We think that extreme sports push your body to its physical limit.
We think that this is in in a sense the goal of sport, that what you hope to achieve through your sport is to push your body as far as it can go.
To reach the upper limits of human capability and we think that extreme sports force you to do that.
In that extreme sports put you on an put you on a put you on an edge in which it forces your body to react quickly, it forces you to do things that you're not comfortable with and it forces you to get into a mind set that makes you work harder and whether it's because of a survival instinct or because of the thrill that you're seeking we think that these are all things that are in line with what sports desire to attain from people, whether it's competitive or individual sports and given that this is the case along with the fact that it simply no real justification to ban these things we definitely think that you should not ban extreme sports.