We should not subsidize electric cars.
So we think that what's important to recognize in a debate about subsidies is that subsidies exist primarily in order to correct for market inefficiencies.
This can be a case where prices are simply too high and people can't get a necessary good, for example, you may subsidize agriculture production when the cost of agricultural production massively outpaces that of the amount people are able to spend on agriculture, but food is obviously a necessary good, or the good is very good for the public well being but does not garner enough attention in the market.
This could be the case for example, early on in solar panel technology and things like this in which there is a good that existed, a good like solar panels that created clean, reusable clean reusable energy, that people desperately needed in order to avoid the long term harm of global warming, but the costs were simply too high to adopt that technology in that stage.
We would say that neither of those is the case for electric cars and therefore we should not subsidize their production nor should we subsidize their purchase because there are other ways that this money could be spent.
Essentially if you give a subsidy you are spending taxpayer money because you are allowing people to take on a market cost without bearing the burden of that market cost.
And that can come either in giving taxpayer money directly to companies or in giving tax breaks to individuals, either way you are essentially giving people money from taxpayers in a way through a subsidy.
And so we think that it would be better it would be better to use that money in an area in which one of these two cases of a subsidy where it's necessary can be met.
So why is this not the case for electric cars?
Firstly, as far supply is concerned, major car companies, almost every major car company, is rolling out electric cars.
Tesla kind of brought them into the mainstay they brought the the market they created the market in a sense.
They made electric cars something that people popularly wanted to own and because of people's increased awareness of climate change and other types of harms coming from high fuel costs etcetera people are switching over to electric cars and the and car companies, car manufacturers know this.
This is why companies from forward to GM to honda to chevy all these companies almost every major car company is creating electric cars and therefore you don't need to subsidize this production because it's already occurring.
Again demand for cars is also going up and demand is likely to continue to rise because of not only the fact that people are aware of the harms of climate change but also because there's an immense amount of savings for consumers in fuel costs in the lifetime of the car and people generally like to save their money.
We also think that funding is generally plentiful for businesses.
Cars are only going to improve on their own as companies compete against each other and these major companies are going to compete to create the most efficient electric cars, the best selling electric cars, to provide electric cars that meet the public demand and meet the general well being of the public.
Because of this, a subsidy is simply a trade off for those fungible resources in an area in which the market is already growing, consumers and producers are already readily available, and the market is only going to continue to produce electric cars that are better and better as the generations go on.
We think it would be preferable to use that subsidy money that could have going to electric cars for almost any other area of public well being, whether it be infrastructure or providing healthcare, we think that there are a number of other ways in which that money could be better used and for these reasons, we should not subsidize electric cars.