We should not abolish term limits.
We think that there are two main arguments as to why abolishing term limits would be problematic.
The first is that abolishing term limits allows for a type of power accumulation that is ultimately harmful to democratic systems, and the second is that even in the scenario in which people do not abuse the lack of term limits, we think that not having term limits denies the idea for fresh denies the opportunity for fresh ideas to grow and to become politically palatable.
Alright, so on that first point, the incumbency effect leads to a situation in which people are more likely to stay in in office once they've been elected.
This is because they have name recognition, they have political clout, they have some sort of a record to run on, more people are simply aware of who they are and are aware of the things they've done which means and people are often also averse to change, all these things compile into a situation which incumbents are dramatically more likely to win elections than other opponents that run against them.
Once someone is an office you have large flexibility to form connections with people and accumulate more power and to use that power at your own discretion.
This means that infinite terms or nearly or you know allowing allowing them to run for as many terms of they want and continually winning, this allows time for people to accumulate so much power that they can undermine democratic institutions and this can be done in a fairly simple way.
If you become such a major political player and you continue to win elections time and again or if there are a large group of people that continue to win these elections time and again you become such an incredible power-player in politics that other people need your influence in order to be successful and don't want to check you don't want to check your power.
If you're an executive, you can coalesce military power and support around you as a sole entity and you can make it the case that you are able to rule and you're able to reign with the support of the military again unchecked.
And in burgeoning democracy is newly created democracies this happens all the time and it often leads to situations in which you have democracy in name only where you really have one authoritarian figure that is allowed to continue to run and continue to win elections.
We think that not having term limits undermines the ability for democratic systems to function properly and therefore leads in more cases and is makes it more likely than not that these people and or in that these situations these systems of democracy faulter.
Secondly on fresh ideas.
Even if it's not abusive, even if the situation I just outlined doesn't come to pass, incumbency still gives a name recognition and the incumbency effect is a proven facet of politics that still happens and it makes it hard for new people to come into office.
This means that elections become less about ideas and more about name recognition, it's more about who's able to get more people to know their name when they go to vote on election day.
This means that new ideas aren't able to flourish because the same person is able to stay in power time and again, which is bad because democracy is built on the ability for ideas to be changed and to be challenged and that with growing worlds and changing worlds with new technology and new social ideas, new social mores, new ideas are often needed in order to face the challenges of thse new times.
Not bringing in fresh blood, not bring in new candidates, allowing the same people to serve ad infinitum into the future, we think makes it less likely that these people will be qualified to respond to the changing environment and the changing circumstances that politics will inevitably need to face with our changing world.
For these reasons, we should not abolish term limits.