We should ban hate sites.
So, our overview is about how this ban is actually going to take place.
We think that the ban is relatively straightforward.
We would say that DNS and IP providers would be banned from allowing sites to be registered to hate groups as registered by non profits by places like the ACLU and by government organizations, and we would set up crawlers by these DNS providers to check and detect for things that look like hate sites that are appearing on websites that are registered to them.
Two reasons why this is important: the first is that echo chambers are created on these hate sites and they spur more hate and violence, and the second is about why not all speech needs to be protected.
So on these echo chambers: what these sites in essence do is they allow for people who hold unpopular views, which is important to recognize, views that the majority of the public does not hold, they're allowed to come together and speak openly about their hate in a way that they cannot do in the in the public sphere, they cannot do in their public life, because most people find these views to be repugnant.
The KKK, the neo nazis, these groups that are categorized as hate groups, are things that are incredibly unpopular.
But one they're allowed to be in these echo chambers, it emboldens them to say these things in public.
It emboldens them to put these things out there and make other people feel less safe.
And it makes people feel like there are just more people around that hold these views than there really are.
And the problem with that is that it sends incredibly threatening signals to people who are the targets of that hate.
If I'm a member, if I'm a black person and the KKK is marching and rallying and even just one member of the KKK is spewing their hate near me, the fact that that person feels comfortable enough, because of these sites, because the collection of people they've gotten to know online, to say those things makes me feel like there is an imminent threat to my well being in a way that does not allow me to live my life to the fullest.
This echo chamber also further radicalizes the people who are on these hate sites.
It takes people from brooding to outright violent.
And this speech has real consequences.
It makes people more likely to get hurt.
When these echo chambers are created it makes it more likely for someone to go from simply not liking black people to taking actual violent action against them, which is an example, an example of which is when dylan ruth shot up church in south carolina.
These are people and these are echo chambers that create people like dylan roof and make it more likely that these attacks occur.
Finally why does not all speech need to be protected?
Speech is not intrinsically good.
We protect it for three main reasons: first we want an open society with discourse that allows fresh ideas to come to the surface, but the problem with hate speech is that hate speech chills speech.
It does the opposite of what the purpose of this protection is and therefore this is not a reason why we should protect this type of speech.
Second, to allow for self expression.
Self expression for this small group creates harm to bodily autonomy and literally the lives of thousands and millions of people, when they're targeted with this violence and terror.
We think in this instance bodily autonomy and life clearly outweigh the right to self expression that is associated with this free speech.
Finally, we we allow free speech because we don't want the government dictating good and bad.
What is good and bad.
The problem is that hate speech is not morally vague.
It's not one of those things that we need to fear the government regulating.
Heat speech is not an ethical discussion, but rather it undermines our whole social fabric.
The foundation of a quality that our governments and our societies are founded upon are undermined by this hate speech.
And therefore it's not an outright outrageous statement for the government to say this speech is bad, when this speech literally harms the underpinnings and the foundations of the states that we choose to create.
Because of this we don't think that there's any intrinsic good to protecting this speech, and because of the massive harm this echo chamber can do, we think that we should ban hate sites.