And the church of scientology.
So we want to give a quick overview.
The way that we're going to enforce this ban is that we're going to force all churches to shut down.
So we're not going to punish people that practice scientology.
We're not going to go after particular individuals.
We're going to go after church leaders, punish them for keeping churches open.
We're going to force these churches to shut down.
If any of these things are done in a clandestine measure, then obviously we can take punitive actions at that point.
So, first, we would say that not all religions are created equal.
So, it's somewhat difficult to define what a religion is and to draw a bright-line between a religion and a cult and some sort of fairy tale, because all religion is based on faith.
All religion is based on believing in something that cannot be proven definitively to be true or to be untrue.
But we think that there are certain tenets of what faith should do, of what religion should do for an individual, that scientology simply does not meet.
We think that, ideally, in order for a religion to be valuable, it must give some sort of path to salvation.
It must give some sort of path in order to live a moral life.
It has to give some sort of a path to communing with other people and to relating with other people on a deeper level, and we think that it should preach some sort of ideas that give people a sense of comfort.
If a religion isn't doing those things in some sort of fundamental way, we think that it shouldn't be counted as a religion in a meaningful sense.
We think that those sorts of ideas are what can separate a religion from a cult, and we think that scientology does not meet those ideals.
The tenets of scientology are divisive in many ways.
They separate communities.
They're based on gibberish from us from a science fiction author in the nineteen fifties.
These are just things that any reasonable person can look at scientology and say: this is distinct from other major religions in the world.
This is something that almost all people could agree should not be counted as a religion and therefore shouldn't give shouldn't be given certain freedoms of religions.
But even if you count it as a religion, it still has major abuses that you simply can't ignore.
First, the obvious cult behavior, the insider conventions, the the gatherings of individuals in secret societies and to different tiered levels and benefactors for the highest levels of scientology.
There's also reports of kidnapping.
There's reports of brainwashing.
When someone tries to leave the church of scientology, they're forcibly separated from their family and their family can no longer come in contact with them.
And in some instances, that family has been punished directly for that person leaving the church.
These are all things that are just overt crimes.
These are things that despite any sort of freedom of religion are things that must be punished under the law.
These are things that no religious tenets can justify, and even if they had some sort of religious tenets that justified this, we don't think that, at that point, freedom of religion overrides the legal obligation to prevent people from committing these laws.
There's also a widespread abuse of blackmail, especially among some of reportedly among some of the most prominent members of scientology, like tom cruise and john travolta.
There are overwhelming crimes and an overwhelming amount of evidence to show that the church of scientology has perpetrated a number of crimes, and at the point at which it behaves like a cult and it acts like a mafia, we see no reason why we should not ban it.
And for these reasons, we should ban the church of scientology.