Slum tourism does more harm than good.
When we're talking about slum tourism, we mean the process by which, oftentimes large groups, or organized groups of people, go into slum areas of developing or developed countries, these are often urban areas such as, in places like india, and in south africa, and in the past, in places like manhattan in chicago.
They do this to do a few things: to first, observe poverty, to see the poverty that exists in the area, and secondly, to spend money, or in some instances, do good services, like volunteer work in those areas, this is what's known as a voluntourism, form of slum tourism, when you go into an area, and you do volunteer work.
What we're going to argue is two parts, is that slum tourism ultimately raises awareness for the issues that exist, and that this can only be a good, and secondly, that this is in addition to additional revenue into slum areas, which allows these people to have more autonomy, control, and empowerment in the long run.
So firstly on awareness.
We think that, for most privileged individuals, they will never people that come from western from western countries, or from developed countries, people that come from areas in which there's affluence, people who've been educated, people who live in homes, with developed, with plumbing, and sewage, and heating, and air conditioning, these things that many people take for granted, will never fully understand the difficulty of living in a slum, and living in poverty, will never understand how hard it is, or the hardships that individuals go through, without personal contact with these things.
We think that, viewing these things online, in movies and TV, this only otherises the individuals that live in those circumstances.
When you're not in the same locations as those people, you can look at that as an other problem, as the problem of people that are not your own, or something that's different from your life, and something that is outside of the scope of your life.
We think that this allows people to ignore the problems of slums, and ignore the problems of poverty, that are perpetuated by global capitalist systems, by the governments in which these people live, and by our own desire, and our own apathy towards the problems.
These are not insurmountable issues, but we think that the only way that they can start to be addressed is when you come to understand the other individuals as people, by having personal contact with people in these slums, and in understanding the hardship that they deal with on a day to day basis.
We think once you interact with these people, you comparatively are less likely to otherise them.
When you see them, and you talk to them, and you understand them, on, not even a deep level, but on a one on one level, when you're able to interact, and have them talk back out you, see that they're people.
We think that this makes people, on balance, more likely to act, more likely to be activists in these areas, and more likely to appreciate, and try and help the issues that exists there than they otherwise would be able to do.
Secondly, on revenue.
We think that the second thing that happens, even if people don't go into these areas and have an epiphany, even if they don't choose to become activists for their life, or even help in any meaningful way, we think that, on top of the fact that they're more likely to see other people as human and there some sort of inherent value in that, we think that, they also bring revenue into these areas.
When people with affluence come into these areas, they're more likely to spend money on local businesses, on things that am on restaurants, on local shopping districts, things like that, that exist within these slums, and when they're more likely to do this, we think that, even if this revenue is coming from a place of hardship, and even if this revenue is coming through a moderately exploitative system, we think that, in the long run, because this happens oftentimes in mass, we think that it's more likely to be able that, in mass, wealth will be able to accrue in these areas, for some individuals, people that truly care, and are part of these communities, and if you can accrue wealth for some in these communities, and you can allow them to advocate for themselves, we think you're more likely to get internal advocacy out of these areas, for the hardship that they experience.
For both the fact that you get better internal advocacy, you get more revenue into areas, which means more individual empowerment and now you're, on balance, more likely to get external activism, we think that slum tourism does more good than harm.