We should not privatize ports.
In this round, we're gonna make two arguments about how ports can be used when they're publicly owned and why we think both of them is preferable to privatized ports.
But first, we want to talk about how ports get their value.
Because we think when a private business owns something, a private business is performing some sort of a good or service, it should be doing something that intrinsically imbues value in that good or service.
So, you pay people for the jobs they do because without those people doing those jobs, then there would be no resource available.
There would be no good.
But when it comes to ports, for the most part, with infrastructure that already exists, the value of the port is not in the value that the people that own the port put into it or the people that work at the poor, but it's mostly the value of the surrounding location, the fact that you can ship your goods to an area where you know they can be sold or they can be transported.
It's the surrounding area of the port, the population center that is the port, that makes it so valuable.
And because of that, we think it should be maintained as a public good and public revenue should be generated from it, and public ownership is the best way of doing that.
If you privatize ports, you're essentially selling this good that where where the value is derived from everyone, and you're giving the value that we all collectively create to one private owner, which we think is unjust.
There are two main ways that ports can be used when they're publicly owned: you can either have low tariff or high tariff ports.
So you can have ports that take in a lot of tax revenue or you have ports that just, essentially, have tariffs to the point at which you can pay for the workers at these ports.
We think that either is either is a good use of the port.
If you do not have high tariff ports, it means that free trade is more likely to flow within your port, to flow within your borders.
If you don't have high rates of tariffs, we think that it ensures that you can get cheaper goods in to consumers.
And, yes, while it means more money is flowing outward, it also means a higher quality of life for consumers in your particular area.
We think that this also fosters a type of community globally which allows you to also sell your goods more abroad at low tariff areas, which we think is, of course, beneficial for local businesses.
So, all in all, you can have free and open trade, or you can have high tariff ports which certainly mean higher costs for consumers at the end of the day, but it also means more tax revenue in order to put back into your communities.
Every time that you spend money on a good that is being imported, that money is, at the end of the day, fleeing outside of the country.
If you have tariffs, it's a way to set against that.
It's a way of ensuring that you're still keeping some of that revenue that the state otherwise could have collected and putting that revenue back into the community.
At the end of the day, though, either of these options, either of these ways that we use ports ensure that there's some sort of value being given back to the public for the value that they imbue in being in the area.
It's either coming in the value of having lower-cost goods, of having of having easier access to goods at lower cost, or it's in the value of having more tax revenue being put into the community which can be used to do public goods and and to and to perform public works which benefit the community on a whole.
Because of this, we think that public ownership is always going to be preferable to private ownership when it comes to ports, and for these reasons, we should not privatize ports.