We should abolish eminent domain.
In this round, we're going to make two main arguments about why eminent domain cannot continue in the united states.
The first is that we think it violates the absolute right to property that people ought to hold in a free state, and the second is that, in practice, eminent domain has gone far too beyond the scope of what it was initially intended to be and there's no there's no reason that it can go back to the way it was before.
So, first, on the principle.
We think that in order for a free state to be just, that just state must guarantee an absolute right to property.
Why do we think that this is the case?
Well, when people opt in to the state, when people are rather forced into the state, they do so with the expectation that in giving up certain freedoms, more freedoms will be more prosperously maintained.
And we think that the main reason that people would consent in to the state is because there's no security of property or of person outside of the state apparatus.
And so, opting into a state system should lead to a system in which people do have both security of property and security of person.
If people cannot have a guaranteed right to their property, it makes it makes simply planning one's life incredibly difficult.
If I can't have the house that I buy be guaranteed, if I can't put roots down in my community because the state could use eminent domain to take away my home, plow over it, and turn it into a highway, that means that I can't have any sort of firm security in the community that I'm trying to be a part of.
We think that these communities, these kind of foundational aspects of owning homes, owning a owning property, this is something that both: one, the state should encourage, because it leads to people forming more tight-knit bonds to their community, being more invested in their community.
It leads to better overall outcomes for the community, but it's also economically something that we should encourage.
Home ownership is a very strong investment.
Investments in property are strong investments.
And we think that the only way that people can be secure in that is that they know that there's an absolute right to the property that they have, and eminent domain goes directly against that.
It says the government can, at any time, take away your property if it deems that necessary.
Now, the second issue with eminent domain is that when an eminent domain was written into the constitution, when it was initially enacted, the thought was that it would only be used for absolutely necessary public works, that if there was a different way of going about doing the public work, then they would go about it doing the different through a different path or that if it wasn't absolutely necessary, if it didn't meet strict scrutiny, that it wouldn't go through.
But that isn't the case anymore.
We've seen as recently as the last decade that even eminent domain is even being used to give private profit to different corporations with the sort of nebulous idea that there are potential tangential benefits to the surrounding community, for example, if you put a walmart megastore in the middle of the community, because that leads more people into the community and then those people will go to stores in the community, this line of thinking, but that hasn't been proven.
And even if it was proven, we don't think that this sort of loose standard is acceptable when we're talking about someone's right to property, when we're saying we're going to take away someone's home so that walmart can build a superstore, and they have to go abandon this land that they may have had for generations.
This is absolutely unacceptable.
It's something that cannot happen within a free state and now that the standards have gotten this loose, it is clear we should abolish eminent domain.