We should not abolish primary elections.
In this round we are going to make two broad arguments about why we think primary elections are crucial to our democracy.
The first is that primary elections play an incredibly important role in our current political landscape.
Recognize that the alternative to primary elections is likely a system in which there are just broad general elections in which many many people can run and there's no sort of sorting mechanism that exists in place to dictate which candidates are legitimate and which ones are not.
We think that primaries play a crucial role in sorting candidates to ensure that a party actually nominates a candidate with broad appeal and recognize that if you have a system in which you have this massive election in which multiple people are running in this general election from the same party what you're likely to get is a split in the votes.
This means that people in the same party who otherwise would have rallied around one candidate are likely to split their votes around a number of candidates and it will likely result in a either a president or some sort of off other office holder that fewer people actually want but the primary process gives a long period of time to sort candidates and for the party to pick out the candidate that has the most approval amongst the most amount of people.
We also think it's an important check for parties to use primaries as a barometer for where its base is at on important issues that when you have a primary election you're able to poll only the members of your party in most instances to get an idea of what the party members believe in an ever changing political environment.
And finally primaries are simply good for candidates.
It's an opportunity for candidates to build name recognition.
Recognize that going into the primary election in two thousand and seven, barack obama had very little name recognition especially compared to the candidates he was running against such as hillary clinton.
Primaries provide a long period of time and a large opportunity for people to get their names out there and to get their ideals out there in such a way that people can actually rally around them and they can become more electable.
But secondly, we think that there is a duty to party members that primary elections uphold.
The party is composed of its members, the members volunteered to the party in political campaigns, they donate to the party and make those types of things make advertising make running the campaigns possible they run get out the vote campaign so that other people who aren't even in the party come out and rally for party candidates and they make the whole party organization from top to bottom possible.
It's important to give back to those party members to ensure that the party recognizes the ideals of its constituent parts because the party exists for its members.
Without the members it could not exist and the duty that the party has is to fulfill the political ends of its members.
That is the whole purpose of the party in coming together.
Primaries allow for self selection.
You get a candidate that represents the party's base and an open election is far more likely to result in a candidate that does not actually represent the base's values.
The general election is a time to move to moderation, the general election is a time for the people as a whole to vote on which candidate is most acceptable.
But primaries are a time you need two political parties there are times in which the parties get to reward their members and say you got to have a say in who will hold our banner, you get to say you get to have a say in what the party actually represents because the members don't get to vote on a party platform, they don't get to vote on every single candidate in every single district but they do get to have a say in who the ring leaders of the party are the presidential nominee for the party high levels high level senators and other office holders for the party and this is an important time that the party has to actually identify what's its what its identity is and to give back to the party members that make it that make it possible for the party to exist.
For these reasons, we should not abolish primary elections.