We should not abolish trade barriers.
Now, in this round, we want to be clear.
We're not saying that all existing trade barriers are necessary.
We're not even saying that trade barriers should be the general norm between states, but rather that we think that trade barriers, as a general option, it's something that states can use, are crucial, and are essential and something that should not be , carte blanche, abolished.
So, first, we think that barriers are often used to enforce political pressure.
They're one of the main methods of soft power that can be used when acting with different with different political actors across the globe.
Firstly, trade barriers have often been used to try and get humanitarian aid humanitarian change effectuated in different countries.
For example, iran for a number of years had trade barriers levied against it, in part because of their nuclear program which we also wanted wanted to deter, but also because of the humanitarian treatment of its people.
The same goes for north korea.
There're immense amount of trade barriers and different types of sanctions that have been placed against these countries and, essentially, those sanctions, those trade barriers stop any sort of products from being shipped into the state.
And it's something that enforces pressure on the state, because if the people have to pay a high cost for goods, if the state is not gonna be able to get the goods it needs, then the regime cannot maintain itself, it cannot maintain its legitimacy, and it's an effective tool for getting humanitarian change through.
It also gets countries to lower their tariffs.
So, for example, as donald trump is creating new tariffs and new trade barriers between the united states and many of its allies, there's a mechanism that those allies have to react in kind, because they can effect trade barriers.
They can put up barriers and put up different costs on shipping things into the united states.
They can make goods more expensive in the united states and through that action, they can put pressure on donald trump and on the american people in order to change their existing behavior and in order to in order to get normalize trade relations back going with american allies.
And we think it's important to use trade barriers selectively, of course.
It's important for the general benefit and we of of the population of both nations involved in any sort of trade dispute that those barriers are used selectively, but we certainly don't think it's appropriate to abolish them altogether.
Another benefit of trade barriers is that it protects domestic jobs.
And one of the talking points that donald trump has used consistently in raising trade barriers and raising tariffs on things like steel from china is that it it removes jobs in the united states.
If china, for example, can dump steel in the united states at incredibly low cost, it means that domestic steel workers are out of luck and that those companies that they work for can no longer be competitive in the domestic market.
So it's important for maintaining domestic jobs, and it's important to allow the state to have some sort of way to correct for imbalances in trade.
And finally, trade barriers can be used to raise funds to balance trade deficits.
When we're talking about the domestic product of the state, any sort of trade deficit you have is a net loss.
Even it means that people in the state are getting cheaper products, ultimately it means that more money is fleeing the state than is coming in, and trade barriers can work as a mechanism for trying to raise funds to balance that trade deficit.
For a multitude of reasons, trade barriers have been effective as a method of soft power, as a method of raising funds, as a method of protecting domestic workers.
And for these reasons, we should not abolish trade barriers.