We should not prohibit pipeline transport.
So, in this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think, compared to other forms of transporting things like oil and things like natural gas, pipeline transport is beneficial in a comparative gain.
So, let's talk first about why we still need these resources, because with the green energy revolution, with the improvements we've made to green tech, with solar, with wind, many people look at fossil fuels as something that we should be beginning to phase out.
And while that may be true, it is certainly not the case that we are anywhere close to a world in which we can be entirely independent from fossil fuels.
We still live in a world in which natural gas, in which crude oil, these types of things are necessary for the day-to-day functions of our world, and that while it's definitely beneficial to move forward from these types of technologies, from these types of fuel, we don't think that it's feasible or, in fact, likely, that these things will be phased out altogether in the near term.
So when we're talking about pipeline transport and we're talking about prohibiting it, we think that maybe in the long run, this is something you could do, but in the short term, in the next ten to fifteen years, this is certainly not a viable option, because it's simply less dangerous than other forms of shipment.
And what we mean by this is that once you construct the pipeline, once you make sure it's structurally sound, once you make sure that it's welded correctly, that there aren't any major leaks or anything like that, it is a relatively secure system.
We hear horror stories about things like pipeline spills every now and again, but we also hear stories, time and time again, about oil fields, and oil spills, and oil rigs, and and things like that.
So it's it's a relatively safe system, and it means that you're not transporting this thing through something like trucks that can spill over on a road and take over an entire roadway and prevent travel for various periods of time.
It means that you're keeping this isolated, oftentimes, from major hubs of of communal activity, from from areas in which something like an oil spill could cause serious damage.
You're often doing this in more secluded areas, which we think is beneficial.
And it is also just immensely more efficient to use pipeline transport than to use other forms of transport, because if you think of something like shipping it overseas, or you think of something like train transport, or you think of something like trucks, all these things require way more manual labor than pipeline transport ever will.
It just raises the cost of all these resources by a dramatic amount if you have a system in which you go from having pipeline transport, where you pay very little to get your fuel and your goods transported, to a system where that sort of transport is prohibited, and now every step of the way, you have to pay individuals or multiple individuals a living a salary, a wage, to make sure that that good can come.
That cost gets passed along to the consumers.
That means that for our energy production, energy costs get higher, which is something that ultimately ends up affecting the worst off the most.
Because while these gains, these increase of costs may be marginal to some, if you have to pay five percent more for your energy bill because now, all of a sudden, the energy company needs to start producing immense amounts of infrastructure that cost real human labor in order to do, that means that many people are priced out from these markets, they have to make choices of what else they're going to pay for, and they have to make serious they have to make serious choices about what they're going to cut out from their life in instances where they already have very little to give up.
For these reasons, we should not prohibit pipeline transport.