We should not increase government regulation.
In this round, we're gonna make a few main arguments about why we think any additional government regulation is both unnecessary and unjust.
So let's start with the principled argument.
We think that the a just state necessarily maximizes freedom as that freedom is how it gains its nature as a just state, and by definition, maximizing freedom requires the limitation of regulations to be absolutely necessary.
So let's explain why we think this is the case.
In the status quo, there is no meaningful way for individuals to consent to the state apparatus.
There's no way that you can feasibly or rationally consent to every law that has been passed in the past.
There's no way to ensure any sort of oversight or individualized control over the regulations that will affect you.
As one individual person, there's very little ability for you to revoke any consent from the state.
You can certainly move to a different state but that simply means you will be in the exact same position in a different state.
So we think that as a fundamental aspect of our society, consenting to the state is something that is impossible.
But as a massive coercive apparatus, we think that the state fundamentally needs consent in order to be just.
So, in order to reconcile the fact that the state needs some sort of consent and that it's impossible to gain that consent, we think what the state needs to do is find a proxy for that consent.
And the way that you find that proxy is by understanding why a rational person would consent to the state if that was a meaningful option for them.
And the reason that a rational person would would opt into the state is because the state provides them freedoms.
It provides them with protections for freedoms that they otherwise wouldn't have in the state of nature.
In a world without any sort of coercive apparatus, without any sort of state, you would have maximal freedom in the sense that you could do anything that you decided you want to do, but that would go for every other person as well.
And so, that means that others' absolute freedom poses a risk to your absolute freedom.
And so you give up that absolute freedom in order to maintain a large majority of that freedom.
And so maximizing overall collective freedom must be the way that the state behaves, but regulation obviously does not do that.
Regulation minimizes the freedom that one has.
We also think that in addition to the fact that it is unjust for the state to overregulate, the state simply has enough regulation in the status quo.
We regulate thousands and thousands of different aspects of business, of personal lives, of how communities need to operate, of living spaces, of water, of air quality.
All these things that surround us are regulated.
We think the problem in the status quo is that there are a number of loopholes and a lack of oversight to enforce those regulations.
So when you see things happen like workplace accidents or when you see things happen like pollution in water supplies, it's not because there isn't regulation that existed to prevent those things.
It's because that regulation wasn't being enforced.
So we think that what's most important is that the state continues to find a way to enforce existing regulations, because we agree certain regulations are necessary in order to maximize freedom.
In order to have your freedom maximized, you need to have a safe place to work, a safe way to consume water, safe air to breathe, but we think that in the status quo, all of the necessary regulations exist and it's just a matter, at this point, of enforcing those regulations.
For these reasons, we should not increase government regulation.