We should abolish juvenile courts.
So, we're going to take a somewhat radical approach, so I'm gonna walk through why that's the case over the course of the speech.
But we would say that outside of major crimes, things like murder, rape, grand theft, things that are absolutely reprehensible, children should not be tried for crimes.
Rather, if a child is found to be disobedient in certain ways, we think that there are different social programs that should be replaced with the juvenile court system and juvenile detention, things that allows juveniles to still interact with society, still be a part of society, because they're not an inherent risk to society, but at the same time be taught better behavior in these other systems.
So why do we think that this is the case?
We think that at a young age, people are not able to internalize the impacts of their decisions.
When you are a young person, when you're a thirteen, a fourteen year old, a fifteen year old, you don't understand the ramifications of what you're doing.
You don't even know the person that you're going to be in ten years.
Thirteen year olds aren't able to internalize the actual impacts of their actions.
So if I'm a thirteen year old and I'm saying, " oh, I'm going to go steal from the store.
I'm going to go beat up this kid at school because he's been bullying me, " these are things that I can't internalize the ramifications of those decisions cause I don't have the life experience.
I haven't been put in a situation where I need to understand the ramifications of my decisions because there are so many people watching over children at any given time.
You have parents.
You've teachers.
You have mentors.
You have different leaders in clubs and other youth organizations, all people that are watching out for this child, that are making sure that this child isn't doing something problematic.
And when there's a failing in that, which is often the case when people who are young commit crimes, when there's a failing at one of those levels, that's not the fault of the child.
If a child doesn't have those role models, if a child doesn't have those parents, those teachers, those mentors to ensure that they're going along the right path and behaving correctly, and they're learning bad morals, that is not the fault of the child for being in that situation.
That is a failing of us as a society to recognize those children and to do something to ensure they go on a better path moving forward.
We think that the juvenile court system entirely overrides that.
The juvenile court system says, it puts them in this weird limbo position where we say, " oh, we know that you're not as responsible as adults but you're still somewhat responsible for your actions, and therefore we're going to put you in jail. "
And there's also the status offenses like skipping school, or being out past curfew, or underage drinking, things that are just a crime because of your age that wouldn't be punished in any other adult court system.
These are things that put kids into a situation in which they are put through the juvenile court system, there there's a lack of trained defenders for these court systems so they're often found guilty, and then they end up in an environment where they're surrounded by other disenchanted youth who then go on to spur more bad behavior.
And that's why there's incredibly high recidivism rates amongst people that previously went through the juvenile court system.
We think it would be far preferable to instead work in this instead of working in this weird middle ground, to acknowledge: no, these children are not responsible for their actions.
They're not responsible for their upbringing.
They're not responsible for their learned behavior and, as such, we're going to go down a different path, a path that really reintegrates children these children into our society and teaches them and fulfills the failings that we've had in the past rather than put them through a juvenile court system.
For these reasons, we should abolish juvenile courts.