Prenatal diagnosis should not be mandatory.
We think that this debate is largely about the role of government and as such, we're going to focus most of our arguments on why we simply don't think it's the role of the government as it exists to mandate that individuals undergo medical procedures.
We simply think that this is beyond the scope of what's justified by the government and as such, results in an unnecessary and unwarranted rights restriction on individuals.
So why do we think that this is the case?
We think that the government, as it exists, is inherently coercive.
The reason for this is because people cannot meaningfully consent to the government, the government that they're either born into or forced into, and they cannot meaningfully leave the state apparatus given that most places on the planet are occupied by some sort of governing authority.
Which means that no matter where you go, you're at the behest of a government authority.
What this means is that there is no there's no way for people to choose to be under government rule.
There's no way for people to choose that they're going to be governed.
What this means is that the government may be a necessary evil.
It may simply be the case that the government needs to exist to regulate human action to do these types of things.
But the government should recognize the nature of itself as inherently coercive.
As existing without the consent of the governed in a meaningful way.
What this means is that the government should act in such a way to try and minimize the restrictions that it places on people and to maximize their freedoms.
Because if the government exist without the consent of the governed, it must exist for the purpose of increasing the quality of those people's lives.
And we think the way that that happens is through allowing those people to make decisions for themselves, AKA increasing individual freedom and individual autonomy.
We think the government we think that the way to do this is by creating the government structure in a system of laws that is necessarily focused on upholding negative rights claims.
And what we mean by this is that the government is focused on ensuring that people are able to access basic rights.
It doesn't mean that people are given some sort of positive positive economic or otherwise legal assistance by the government.
What it means is that people are the government exists to create a social structure, a state apparatus, that ensures that within that apparatus people are able to freely interact with one another to form contracts to undertake economic, social, or otherwise so otherwise public interactions in a way in which they do not need to fear that their rights are going to be restricted.
We think that prenatal diagnosis simply undermines this.
We don't think that there's anything about upholding people's freedom and liberty that should force them to undergo a medical procedure and on top of that we think that there are legitimate we think that there are legitimate reasons why people may be averse to such a thing.
We think that if you think that this is such an important part of the good life, prenatal diagnosis is so crucial, that you should rather legislate to increase the voluntary access of this.
That you should create a state apparatus that makes it easier to voluntarily access prenatal diagnosis, rather than mandating it.
You can increase education, you can increase funding, all these things but you shouldn't force people to undergo these procedures.
Okay.
So why would some be averse to medical care?
Well firstly, they may be averse because they have had prior trauma.
It is the case that people occasionally have trauma within the medical field whether it's some sort of back surgery in the past or some sort of medical procedure gone wrong, we don't think it's fair to force those people to relive that trauma.
There's also a huge amount of people that simply do not have the money for this type of thing and forcing them to make this type of expenditure is only going to make put them in a deeper hole when that child is eventually born and put them in a deeper economic hole.
And finally there are religious considerations that many people hold.
For these three reasons we don't think that it's simply the case that every single person should obviously go and have a prenatal diagnosis and furthermore we simply do not think it is the purpose of the government to choose what medical procedures people are going to have to undergo.
And for these reasons we think that prenatal diagnosis should not be mandatory.