We should adopt slow food.
So when we're talking about slow food, we think it's important to lay out what exactly we think we're adopting.
The first is to shift food consumption to a system that is more localized and more more based off of local production.
This means getting more food from the local environment and doing it in a sustainable way, for example, teaching people within that ecosystem, within that environment, in our communities how to garden in a way that puts produce and puts seeds into the into the earth that are native to the region, native to the area, and repopulates the area in an environmentally friendly and sustainable way, and also to educate people about the harms of big agriculture and industrial animal raising and slaughter.
Factory farming is in the status quo is an incredibly harmful system that we think people should be educated about.
So first, let's walk through our three arguments.
The first is that we think this promotes local food and local business.
When you have a type of food culture, when you have a food culture that's centered around understanding the local culture, it's understanding what things are native to the region you're in, what can your region do better than anyone else, what is the history of food in your area, and what do you have the natural resources around you to make better and fresher than everyone else?
We think it spawns a number of new restaurants and new businesses that provides more job opportunities and provides new funds that can cycle through the local economy.
We think that people already have shown to be in favor of buying local, of spending local, of having this sort of local mindset in an increasingly globalized world, and we think that this is something that people would likely be interested in.
If there were restaurants near me that talked about what is unique to the state that I live in, what is unique to this particular area, what can we do that is better than anywhere else, the one food that you should experience in this area, that's something that encourages higher quality dining, a more informed public, and a better food culture altogether.
We also think that soft slow food pushes out unhealthy chain restaurants and fast food.
When you give rise to new businesses like this, new local food businesses, it means that these comparatively unhealthy chain restaurants that use methods like factory farming, that use methods of storing food that isn't healthy, and they have high fat foods, high cholesterol foods, these types of things that are comparatively less healthy than organic, local local-raised foods are able to be, we think that you create a more healthy general public, and you put less money into these big corporations and more into local businesses.
The final thing that this is just ecologically friendly.
It promotes things like local gardening and and maintaining our natural environment in these areas, especially in places that have been urbanized or have been turned into local communities, things that have been developed in a large way.
We think it's important that we maintain the environment as it existed before our development to the extent that we can, which means growing produce and planting trees and planting different produce that are local to the environment.
It's about connecting ourselves with the nature around us in a way that makes us appreciate that environment, and it encourages people to behave in a more sustainable way more broadly.
And, obviously, we think that this is preferable to industrial farming and agriculture which creates huge waste which creates huge suffering for animals, huge waste of land, and is done in a way that puts many chemicals into our food supply.
We think that this organic natural system of farming is simply healthier and less and more humane than the industrial systems that we're currently using.
For these reasons, we should adopt slow food.