We should not subsidize adoptions.
In this round, we're going to make a few arguments as to why we think it would be problematic to subsidize adoptions.
The first is: we want to talk about the principle of subsidy to begin with.
Because recognize what a subsidy essentially is is a use of public funds.
Whether that use of public funds comes in the in the form of payments to individuals or it comes in the form of tax breaks for individuals, it's something that we think is essentially coming out of public coffers, and the way that you get those public funds is, obviously, through taxation.
But taxation is not something that's done with the consent of the people.
People aren't able to revoke their consent for taxation.
If I decide this year I don't want to pay my taxes cause, you know, I'm a little strapped for cash and I'd like to have some more money, I can't make that decision.
The government is going to take that money from me anyway, and if they don't take it now, they could put me in jail for not paying my taxes.
There's no way for me to revoke my consent, and that means that taxation is not done through meaningful consent.
So, there must be some sort of justifying principle, then, for taxation because otherwise, it's literally just theft.
What is that justifying principle?
We think that in order for taxes to be just, the money that you gain from that taxation needs to go back into public hands.
It needs to be something that is done for the betterment of all, and someone that everyone is able to access, which is why it's okay for the government to take money from me in order to provide better infrastructure, to provide better public transportation, things that I'm easily able to access and things that I use on a daily basis because otherwise, if not for this sort of taxation, I couldn't have the things that are necessary for me to live my life, things that we take for granted.
So, in order for a subsidy be just, we think two things need to be the case.
First, there needs to be some sort of a large public good, but we don't think this exists in the case of adoptions.
Yes, don't get me wrong, there's a clear good that accrues for the people that are adopted and for the people that are able to adopt.
That is a huge good, and I wouldn't denounce that.
But, it's not any sort of a public good.
Like, if my neighbor decides to adopt a child, I am not gaining any sort of benefit from that.
There's no sort of accruement of benefit for me, and there's no sort of way the public can benefit from that as well.
Secondly, this sort of subsidy needs to be accessible to many.
But recognize that no matter how much you subsidize adoptions, adoption is still going to be something that is incredibly costly because of the high cost of having a child.
Which means that if you do this, it's not going to be widely accessible, because there's still immense barriers to entry for adoption that will not be alleviated by any sort of a subsidy, which means that, on these two tests, there this subsidy simply fails.
Additionally, we think there needs to be some sort of a meaningful change but, in the case of adoptions, we don't think there's going to be, because the status quo solves.
In the status quo, there are ways to get some sort of tax breaks, there are ways to make the adoption process cheaper and, comparing the the costs of the adoption process to the costs of actually carrying a child through to birth, the process of giving birth to a child, those costs are relatively the same, if not slightly cheaper for adoption.
And so we don't think that the barriers that exist in the status quo are unreasonable barriers, are barriers that people who otherwise would have had a natural child wouldn't have been able to ascend anyway and because of this, we don't think that this sort of subsidy is going to lead to people more likely adopting.
It's not going to some sort of meaningful public gain and meaningful change in this sector.
Because of this, we don't think that the status quo is is not solving satisfactorily right now.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize adoptions.