Single sex schools should be banned.
So, we think that this would take place at both undergraduate levels, at collegial levels and also preparatory level, so secondary education, all throughout the education system, we're going to ban single sex schools.
So, we would say that the overriding responsibility of all stages of education is to prepare those that are within the school to move forward into the future.
To be productive individuals in the real world and to be productive members of our society.
We would say that single sex schools do a worse job of this than traditional mixed gender schools.
So firstly, we think that schools are an important place where individuals learn to interact with their peers both on a social and professional level.
So we mean by this is that there are two kind of ways in which people have interactions at the school.
They have interactions between their friends, in which they're supervised obviously by adults, but they're largely free to interact as they see fit, and then there are more professional types of interactions that are entirely guided by adults within the classroom setting.
We think that both of these prepare individuals for experiences outside of the classroom and we think that it's necessary for individuals to understand how to interact with the other gender.
We think that the way in which school benefits you is that, for individuals that don't have friends of the opposite gender, that don't attract the opposite gender often, it forces them to have these types of interactions.
Even if it may make them uncomfortable, we acknowledge that oftentimes people will be uncomfortable during adolescence but if you do not have these types of experiences there's no way to grow out of that discomfort with dealing with the opposite gender.
So we think that it's necessary that individuals have these interactions in a structured setting such as a school setting.
We think that this ensures that individuals do not feel immense pressure to socialize within the professional setting, but it also means that they have the opportunity to socialize with individuals of the opposite gender during their regular socializing hours that are built into any particular school day.
We think that individuals are more prepared to have these types of adult interactions with the opposite gender in the future, and we think that there are overriding understandings and stereotypes and gender roles that are bought into by individuals and perpetuated within a society.
We think that mixed gender schools are a way of breaking these types of gender roles at a very direct level.
The reason for this, especially on an international level, is that patriarchal understandings of gender are often built into the educational systems in single gender schools.
Particularized understandings of how women are supposed to behave in the household sphere are often built into the types of education that they receive an all in all girl schools, and we think that these types of schools are are problematic in perpetuating these types of patriarchal notions.
We think that when you have mixed gender schools, it firstly sends a signal that both genders need have essentially the same requirements and deserve the same type of education, no matter what they might go on to do in the future.
We think that this does in immense job of undermining these types of patriarchal notions that perpetuate, are that pervade society in the status quo.
It guarantees equal protection and attention from the state.
It guarantees that the amount of funds are not going to be disproportionately skewed towards either type of gender, and that the curriculum that is adopted is more likely to be one that will give these individuals a holistic rather than a patriarchal engendered education.
We think that individuals, no matter what profession they go into or social sphere they enter into, are going to have to have interactions of a professional and social manner with the opposite gender.
Schools should not shy away from this fact and we think that in fact school is a structured breeding ground where you can learn to have those interactions.
And for this reason we think that single sex schools should be banned.