We should not further exploit solar energy.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why solar energy is not the renewable energy of the future.
So first, let's talk about why there's a fungible amount of resources available for renewable energy.
In the status quo there's simply limited investment opportunity for renewable energy.
There's a limited amount of benefactors and a limited amount of investors that want to put their money into renewable resources.
The price per kilowatt hour of of this technology is still pretty low for the most part and the tech is not at a place to succeed financially.
It's just more expensive for the average business or the average consumer to get their energy through a renewable resource as compared to doing it through existing fossil fuel resources and there's just other investment opportunities that are likely to have higher yields than putting money into wind power and to solar power or something like that.
This means that the people that are invested there are that are interested in investing in in renewable resources are interested in doing this for a reason other than economic gain.
It's because they see renewable resources as something that we need to shift to because of global warming and that's entirely true.
But we think that it's simply best to invest all of those funds into one basket.
To put all of our eggs in the basket of one renewable resource and the reason for this is that when you have growth in a particular area, especially areas like renewables that require lots of technological advancements and lots of infrastructure advancements, you accelerate growth more rapidly through one type of energy.
The reason for this is that when you have when you have improvements they build upon each other so the amount of money that you spend to say get to say get solar from ten percent to fifteen percent efficiency is similar to the amount of money you would spend to get solar from fifteen to thirty percent efficiency.
It's because you have an exponential increase in the amount of yield you can get from your technology.
This is true not just in renewable energy but also in technology more broadly.
This is a fundamentally, we think, a comparative debate about renewables and because of that we think that wind is the better investment opportunity and the better energy source than solar.
A few reasons why: first, there's less carbon in the production process of wind energy.
The reason for this is that you don't have to invest in tons and tons of batteries in the production of solar panels that cause lots of harmful emissions and you and the actual production of the energy is cleaner when it comes to wind and when we're talking about renewables to help fight global warming, to help fight the catastrophe the impending catastrophe of global warming, we think that less carbon definitely better.
We also think that wind energy doesn't rely on individual adoption.
So yes there are a number of solar fields in different ways that municipalities are investing in solar but the main way that solar can really be adopted is through things like people putting solar panels on their businesses, on their rooftops of their homes and we think that that is unlikely to be something that comes to fruition for the foreseeable future.
But wind energy just relies on having a large plot of land and unlike solar farms, those wind farms require a lot less of the of the land they're using to be used which means that land can also be used for things like farming which is something that actually happens in the status quo.
There's also higher production of wind energy right now so it's a better starting point.
And finally, wind energy has twenty four hour production.
In the areas in which it's generally windy the nighttime doesn't make it less windy unlike solar energy in which you're only able to produce energy for about twelve hours of the day.
So the yield you get from your investment is much higher with wind.
Given that this is a trade-off for renewable energies, we simply think that we should not further exploit solar energy.