We should not cancel the national flood insurance program.
So we want to give an overview of what we think we should be doing instead, because we recognize that the national flood insurance program, as it currently exists, is not sustainable in the long run.
It's not doing its job the way that it needs to be done but rather than dismantle it, we say two things should be done.
First, one of the major reasons that the national flood insurance program is failing is that it doesn't have an accurate idea of which US homes are in areas that are actually prone to substantial flooding.
The program was devised in the nineteen fifties and hasn't had its maps redrawn in recent years to account for climate change, to account for more extreme weather that we're seeing in everyday life, which is why so many areas in houston during the hurricane season last year weren't covered under the national flood insurance program, even though they definitely flooded and definitely were at a known risk.
So we're going to update those maps to ensure that more people are covered under the program.
The second thing we're going to do is put way more money into the program because as it currently exists, we think that the state simply cannot fund the repairs the for the damage that are done after flooding in natural disasters.
But these are things that are no fault of the people that live in these areas.
Yes, they do take on certain risk, but they oftentimes are not aware of the level of risk when they move in and, more importantly, these are citizens that the state is obligated obligated to protect.
And if we're going to have a world, if we're going to have a country in which there are massive hubs of commerce, like houston, in areas that can be flooded, we definitely need to protect the citizens that we highly incentivize to live in those areas.
Four big arguments: the first is that it allows communities to stay together.
We think that it's crucial that, recognize without this national flood insurance program what happens is either individuals cannot afford to repair their homes, all value in that home is lost, and they are destitute and forced to move into areas with very little savings, very little value that they can get back from their home, or they pour tons of money repeatedly into these areas and are likely forced to move anyway, because the flood costs keep adding up.
We think that not having this program tears apart communities, especially in areas that we want to incentivize people to live because they're hubs of commerce.
The second thing it does is protect low-income individuals.
So, sure, the average person in this in in houston, for example, the average person may be able to get private insurance.
They may be able to do things to repair their homes, or they may be able to do things that can improve their safety in times of flooding.
But we don't think that all people can afford this, even though all people of all economic levels are equally incentivized to live in these types of areas, and the government has an obligation to protect all of its citizens equally.
So we think, for low-income individuals, a program like this is absolutely necessary.
Thirdly, we think the government is largely liable for not stopping climate change earlier.
Scientists were aware of the fact that CO two emissions were leading to global warming, they were leading to climate change, far before the state acted.
And many would say the state is not acting enough as it currently is.
The state had knowledge and has an ultimate obligation to protect its citizens and did not in this instance.
And we think because of that, the state is liable.
Finally and just generally, we think that this is a very good use of public funds.
Sure, you can say use it for education or infrastructure, but we think that all those things ultimately go towards trying to keep the lives of people protected, to keep people safe, to grow communities, and we think the national flood insurance program surely does that.
For these reasons, we should not cancel the national flood insurance program.