We should not abandon television.
In many cases, people look at television as an outdated mode of entertainment, an outdated mode of spreading news, and they turn to things like the internet as a much more advanced and much more sophisticated and more personalized area for which people can spend their time and gain information, gain media.
But we think that the important historical the historical importance of television can't be overstated, the way that it changed our society.
It allowed the spread of information more quickly, it allowed more communication between the people and the state and, ultimately, it provided immense entertainment value.
So let's break it down along those lines.
First, with entertainment: this is an area in which people often say the internet is preferable.
But what television can do is gain revenue in a way that the internet simply cannot.
Most major television stations are able to gain many, many more views than any individual website or any individual content creator can on the internet, and the reason for that is that it's it has established networks that are easy for people to go to to consume content.
And those networks also have a large amount of cash on hand.
They have a large amount of credit available to them in order to create new content.
We think that while the internet is great for creating small-scale content, the things that people go to, the things that are cultural touchstones for people throughout generations, often require higher production value, they require more intensive resource expenditure, and they require a dedicated long form ability to spread that content, which is what television provides.
The internet cannot match this capability and because of this, we think that entertainment, high quality entertainment, is more often derived from television than the internet.
There's also a history of just success coming from television in regards to the field of entertainment.
You can see that from from the early days of television to present, there are high quality television shows, there's high quality entertainment that's available, and it's a wide variety of entertainment.
There's stuff on TV that people of all walks of life can come to enjoy.
And it's a cultural connection for people because it's so widespread and it's so it's so easily consumed by the masses.
Television shows are important cultural connection that people hold with each other and allows them to connect with each other on something that's personal to them, something that has inspired them or made them feel a certain way, and it allows you to empathize with your fellow community member.
Secondly, the television is a good way to spread information.
We think that while many people to decry fake news nowadays, it's important to recognize that major news networks like CNN, like fox, like MSNBC: one, do an immense amount of reporting and expose information that people otherwise wouldn't have heard and, two, are comparatively better at spreading true information than the internet is.
If the internet became the main source of information for most people, we think that we would have a comparatively less informed public than we do now, with most people getting their news from the television.
And finally, TV is just a massive job creator.
TV is a multibillion dollar business that creates hundreds and thousands of jobs at each individual network.
It's incredibly lucrative, both for the people that are higher up and for people that are working in menial jobs in television, that are working menial network jobs.
We think that abandoning television altogether would be a massive economic toll on these people, and it's hard for these people to get other jobs because they're specialized in roles that are unique to television.
There aren't many people that need like a cameraman, that specialized skill, outside of television.
Maybe in movies, but we think that field's likely saturated.
And so you're not going to be able to replace these jobs.
Given the benefit of the the economic benefit of these jobs and the entertainment and information value of TV, we should not abandon television.