We should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
In this debate we're going to provide you with two main arguments.
The first is a moral argument about why stem cell research embryonic stem cell research is immoral, and the second thing we're going to talk about is kind of the philosophy the philosophy behind subsidies and government action through subsidies.
So firstly, on morality, and it's important to recognize that these are independent reasons why you should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
So even if you don't buy that they're immoral, we still think that there are strong arguments against it on the philosophical ground.
So, on morality, we think that the creation of potential humans with the explicit purpose of exploitation is bad.
We think that when you create embryonic stem cells or when you create the embryos that give rise to stem cells, we think that there's potential there for human life, and we think that potentiality is a good metric for creating moral worth.
Why do we think that this is the case?
Firstly, potentiality contains all human beings.
It means that no matter your capability, no matter your intelligence, or your lifestyle or anything like this, you have a potential that encompasses your moral worth and that allows you to be considered a moral actor.
Even individuals that have committed crimes in the past or have done bad things, there's potential for their moral nature to improve and therefore, it includes all people.
And we think when having questions about morality and when you have quandaries about how you're going to behave in a moral sense, we think it is best to extend the moral net as wide as possible.
Because when we're dealing with questions of morality, we're dealing with things that have to do with the fundamental way that people are treated.
It has to do with the fundamental way that we view good and bad in the world.
And we think it is better to stay on the side of caution when determining whether or not we're going to give something moral worth simply because, in doing so, there's very little harm in giving something moral worth and then it not being able to internalize it or fulfill that potential or what have you.
But if you do this, if you do such a thing, if you give something moral worth, it allows that thing to grow and to flourish in the strongest way it possibly could and for these reasons, we think that potentiality is a good standard.
Given that this is the case, these embryos obviously have potentiality that needs to be taken into account and we think that because of this, in killing them through doing this type of stem cell research, we shouldn't subsidize these practices.
So, even if you don't believe anything I just said, I'm gonna explain why, based on the philosophy of why we subsidize things and why the government acts, this is bad.
So, recognize that a subsidy is fundamentally the giving of public money collected through taxes or the giving of a grant that can be accessible only through public goods, through subsidizing it through other monetary forms that come in through the public.
Recognize that people largely cannot consent to these taxes, so you need to offset that with subsidizing things, with giving things, with spending public money on things that are generally positive and on things that the average person would be willing to consent into.
This is why there's very little debate over whether or not infrastructure spending is good.
Because, on mass, most people would like to have a good system of infrastructure.
They'd like to be able to have roads that they can drive on, public transportation that they can easily access, buildings that they know aren't going to fall like fall down around them.
These are all things that the average person would be willing to consent to.
When it comes to embryonic stem cell research, this is a massively divisive issue.
Many people in the united states and around the world view this as a horrible moral action, and to spend their money, their taxpayer money, on the subsidy and the on the subsidizing of something they view to be horrendously immoral is not an action that the government should take.
It is effectively using their coercive power to steal their money and then use that same money to fund something that they find morally repugnant.
We don't think that that is the job of a just state or a just government.
And even if you think that embryonic stem cell research is good, this is this does not matter, because to subsidize it would be to go against the purpose of the state and the philiosophical purpose of subsidies.
And for these reasons, we should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.