We should not protect edward snowden.
Many people view edward snowden as some sort of a folk hero, as this man that rose above the harmful status and the job that he was doing, that exposed tremendous problems that exist within the united states government, and brought to the world a better understanding of the harms of what the government was doing.
We think that edward snowden is nothing more than a common criminal and as such, should not be protected in any higher way.
Two main arguments: the first is about equal application of the law.
We think that those that would protect edward snowden do so because they follow a particular political bent that view the information that he released as good, that think that what he did was overall a net positive and because of that, his actions shouldn't have repercussions.
But this simply isn't how a functional legal system can hold up.
The legal system that we currently have is not ends-based but rather based on the actions and the culpability that one has for their actions.
Martin luther king went to jail when he protested in birmingham, alabama, because he violated the law.
We would not say that he did not do an action that was beneficial, that's that he did something that was good but, nevertheless, he did so with the knowledge in mind that his action would result in him being in jail.
Because a just legal system, a legal system that is fair to all, and a legal system that people can have faith in is one that doesn't discriminate based on the particular political leanings of a judge or of the population at the time.
And look at it the other way as well.
If you could simply have a legal system that was at the whims of those that at the whims of members of our society, you could just as easily put someone in jail or incarcerate someone for a crime they did not commit because the people in the society believed it to be the most utile, because they believed it to be the most fair.
We think that the underpinnings of our criminal justice system, of a fair criminal justice system, require us to treat edward snowden like anyone else, to bring him to trial like anyone else, and likely to likely to incarcerate him for the crimes that he committed.
We think that whether if if it is the case that we think that edward snowden should not be punished, that we should be protecting him, then we would have to create new laws and put new laws in place that would make what he did no longer a crime.
But let's now talk about the harms that were created by edward snowden, because putting out government secrets certainly isn't something that has no negative repercussions whatsoever.
First, he exposed US intelligence operations to a number of of global actors, both hostile ones and friendly ones, and resulted in the deaths of dozens of individuals who were doing things like conducting spying operations in foreign and foreign in foreign countries and resulted in the leaking of the technology that we're using which made it more likely that our opponents, that our enemies can then use that technology against us in a more nefarious way.
It also made it the case that more people moving forward were inspired by his action, and there's a multiplicity effect, that is, more people are inspired by the actions of edward snowden, see him as a hero, more people are likely to take these actions again moving forward, which means you get these repercussions occurring over and over and over again.
But you need to send a strong signal for that reason: to create deterrence against people doing these things moving forward, because edward snowden revealed information that brought forward deaths of people and the leaking of US classified operations.
And in the future, people could release information that harms even worse off, even members that even people that aren't a member of the state apparatus that would release information about, say, about like secret witnesses or the whereabouts of people that are in protective custody, these types of information occur with bulk data with bulk data dumps, and we think that these things are simply unacceptable within our society.
For these reasons, we should not protect edward snowden.