We should not ban gratuities.
In this debate we're going to make two main arguments about why gratuities are necessary in our current environment.
The first is about underpaid service workers and the second is about quality based payment and why in theory quality based payment is something that we would want to have.
Alright so first on service workers.
Government will say that if you were to ban gratuities in fields like waitressing and in fields that other types of service fields being a hairdresser other areas in which gratuities are standard and a major form of how people get their payment you would likely see an increase in the base salaries that these people make and therefore they would have less less flexibility in what they're making but they would also more security in what they're making.
We would say that this is a rosy view of what's likely to happen and is likely not going to be the case.
We think there are three reasons why this isn't the case.
The first is that because these people are low skilled workers the service workers that we're talking about don't have to get any sort of formal education in most cases in most cases if they do need formal education it's not highly expensive it's not highly specialized and because of this there's a surplus of labor to fill the jobs that these people currently hold.
What this means is that there's little market pressure to raise wages naturally this means that if you were to have people that were unhappy with their current level of payment and they were to leave their jobs you're likely as an employer going to be able to find someone that can replace them and therefore you don't need to do too much to raise wages in order to keep your employees happy you can afford to lose those employees.
The second likely the second reason why it's unlikely that raises a what occurs that if rages if wages were raised it would likely cut down on staff in order to balance out expenses.
If you're a business and you have to suddenly start paying your employees thirty forty percent more you're likely not going to be able to keep all of the employees that you currently have if you're still going to bring in the net income that you've been that you've grown accustomed to and this means that maybe you're going to get a raise for some people but you're also going to get massive one hundred percent pay cuts for people that get laid off when you implement this policy.
What this means is that even if these people are getting paid more and even if for some people there's more financial stability there's immensely less financial stability for maybe thirty percent of the workforce in these areas and would service workers get paid primarily through tips and this means that you're actually harming more people than you're doing good.
The final thing that you could do is you could raise the cost of a food or service whatever it is that that is currently being purchased by by people when they tip but then the market creates competition pushing these prices down there's more competition to put the to push prices down for say italian food in an italian restaurant then then there is to raise the price or to raise the wages for waiters at that same italian restaurant because of this you're likely to you're more likely than not going to have either the situation the first situation that you're just not going to raise wages at all and then you're going to cut out the tips and gratuities that these people need or you're going to cut down on staffing and you're going to get these raises.
We don't think that either of those are beneficial and we think that we would prefer the status quo to either of those outcomes.
Secondly we would say that quality based payment is something that is in theory good it means that people have the ability to earn more money because they have put out better service and it means that the amount of effort you're putting into your labor is more likely to accumulate is more likely to be proportional to the amount of money you're taking in and we think that despite whether or not despite whether or not tips are good and tips are a stable source of income this motion is about banning gratuities.
Given that that is the case we certainly think that people if they choose to do so customers should have the right and should have the ability to give some sort of a tip to give some sort of gratuity given that we've explained why banning this type of gratuity isn't going to lead to much higher incomes for the people that are working in these jobs you definitely shouldn't take the ability of customers away to to give gratuities if they see fit if they choose to do so.
For these reasons we should not ban gratutities.