We should not limit the internet of things.
So to specify, when we're talking about the internet of things we think we're talking about internet connected applications, devices, objects, things that people are are smart devices that are starting to come into existence, these types of things that have filled that have created much more promise and much more interconnectivity in the recent say past decade.
We think that overall the internet of things is likely going to cause an increased quality of life for all people.
We think the internet of things allows for technology to evolve and develop and we think as a general principle these types of evolution should be allowed to occur.
We don't think that we should limit the internet of things with heinous regulations and with immense amounts of oversight that can burdon the growth of these types of objects.
Because one, we think these objects are being developed by companies that have a stake in things like security, companies that have a stake in things like these not these devices having secure access and not giving up data of the people that are using them because that's how they maintain a market share in these fields.
So we don't think that you need heinous regulation in order to have the internet of things and that's what we think one of the main limitations of this debate would be.
We think, on a whole, we think that the internet of things will improve lives for two main groups: first, let's talk about the empowerment of individuals.
You can learn more about your behavior from the internet of things than you could know on your own without the internet without the internet of things and interconnected devices.
Imagine just an average human life.
A person that say has a smart fridge and a smart TV that tracks their behavior and tracks how they're acting.
They have a fit bid on their wrist that can track their health and track the type of nutrition they're getting in, the type of energy output they're releasing.
They have smart appliances so that you know how much energy is being released in your house, so that you can budget budget appropriately moving forward, and also if that energy level is getting too high you can decrease it.
And you can use all of the data that's coming in to learn different things about your own preferences, to learn different things about how you live your life and the inefficiencies and efficiencies that exist there in and you can start to make better choices with the help of all of this data.
Because all the things we do create data and it's using the internet of things that allows us to harness the type of data.
You can do things like keep better track of your dietary behavior to improve nutrition and monitor for potential signs of disease.
You can ensure that you can budget appropriately for the future and you can have total control of the household to give more data about all aspects of your life.
Secondly we think there are immense benefits to business.
We think that businesses that that have with the internet of things, businesses have data to empower and automate their marketing schemes.
When you have interconnectedness of devices and you can again gather more data about potential clients, potential customers, it's a lot easier to market to them and to advertise to them.
For example if you have a bunch of smart fridges and you can tell that someone is running out of this particular product, you can market to them in a much more efficient way because they already have the need for that product on their mind.
We also think this is going to be a huge boom in sales of these devices.
Everyone is moving towards a more interconnected home.
Things like amazon alexa or amazon echo are becoming more and more part of more and more popular in recent years and because people want to have this interconnectedness of their life and so we think there's massive economic gain to be had from the internet of things for business.
And finally supply chain analytics allow you to better scrutinized the way that you're putting products together.
It allows you to have more knowledge over where products are that are in the supply chain, where they're being moved around the world, when there are shortages, and allows for much more efficient business to be done especially for things like machinists and companies that put together products from vast global supply chains.
For these reasons we should not limit the internet of things.