We should increase reforestation.
So, we think that reforestation is a fairly straightforward concept: areas that have been deforested, areas in which forest has either through human or natural causes been forced to deteriorate, these are areas that we should be planting a surplus amount of trees, and if we're going to use these areas for potential timber yards, we think you need to plant in a way that is sustainable and a way that ultimately creates a surplus rather than is just planting in order to create yield.
So, a few main arguments: the first and the most important to recognize is that we are rapidly destroying our ecosystems.
There are areas such as the rain forests of our world, there are areas throughout our planet that you can just look from a sky's eye view of the map, and you can compare between, you know, twenty, thirty years ago and today's day.
And you can see, clear as day, that huge swathes of these areas are being destroyed in which and with each area that is destroyed, you have less usable land, you have you have entire ecosystems, thousands and millions of animals, that are being uprooted or killed.
You're having huge amounts of trees being cut down, which leads to less CO two being brought out of the atmosphere.
You have so many impacts that spread beyond just these areas that are being deforested that are caused by our rapid destruction of our ecosystems.
We think that we have an an obligation to rebuild our ecologies not just for the animals that live within those ecologies, but an obligation to our future generations.
If we keep up our use of our forest land in the way that we currently are, if you continue to deforest at the same rate that we are now, entire rainforests will be gone within a few generations.
Timber timber yards will be incredibly rare.
Timber prices will be skyrocketing high.
These are things that simply are not feasible, and it's incredibly easy to do these types of things, to to yield timber in a responsible way, to plant as you go to ensure that you're maintaining the forest that you're taking from while you're taking from it.
These are things that are relatively easy to do and relatively low cost and because of that, we think, more than ever, we have an obligation to stand up and fulfill our duty to future generations to maintain the environments that we have now.
Not only that but another thing that we're doing that's harming our future generations is the massive rise of CO two emissions and global warming, and one benefit of reforestation is that you can mitigate CO two emissions because as more trees grow, as more as more forest is reclaimed, and is is brought back to life, that means that more CO two is being sucked out of the atmosphere in order for these trees to grow, because there is the carbon cycle that exists that is largely reliant on the world's forests.
But finally, even if you don't care at all about CO two emissions, even if you don't care about ecologies, which we think you should, you just get more abundant natural resources if you if you behave in this way, if you increase reforestation.
Because as you increase reforestation, then that increases the potential timber yields that you can have as well.
And it's not just timber yields but other natural resources that become abundant within forests.
We think that these things will ensure that prices never get too high, it means that the wide variety of things that we require to have timber for don't start to get exponentially expensive, it's good for economies, and it's good for future generations.
For these reasons, we should increase reforestation.