We should abolish open primaries in the united states.
It's important to recognize what a primary actually is and what the purpose of that primary is in the first place.
Primaries are the part of an election process where parties themselves are able to directly interact with their constituents, with the base of support that has brought the party to national prominence, that has allowed the party to flourish and win elections at local and state levels.
It's the opportunity for the party to interact with the people that volunteer, the people that donate, and the people that make the party possible in the form that it exists.
It's a time for the party to communicate with its constituents rather than lobbyists and other special interest groups.
This is why we believe that open primaries in the united states need to be abolished, because open primaries dilute the ability for the party to interact with its base.
An open primary allows any individual within the united states, any member within the state to go and vote in a primary, even if they are not a registered member of that political party, or even if they're a registered member of the opposing political party.
We think that this is problematic because firstly, the base is the most important structure that allows a party to survive.
Party candidates are able to moderate after they become after they move through in the general election, but the base needs to support that candidate in their primary and foundational beliefs if the party is going to win elections and ultimately support that base that has given to them so much in the past.
We think that it's more likely the case that when you have an open primary, results get skewed in such a way that individuals that have more moderate use, that don't actually represent what your base believes in, are going to be nominated nominated for office.
This is a problem because firstly, it means that your base is less enthusiastic about the candidate and less likely to turn out, which means that at a party level, you're just less likely to get that candidate nominated.
But secondly, it's a massive waste of an opportunity for the party to actually get an understanding of what their base wants.
When you don't allow the base to be the exclusive messenger of what the party primary is stating, of the the main determining factor, the only determining factor in who the primary ultimately yields, it means that the party understands and has misinformation about what the base is looking for.
For example, if you're a person in the democratic primary and you're running under a much more liberal much more liberal banner, but you allow for conservatives and an open primaries to take place and a more moderate candidate gets promoted, it means the democratic party isn't able to see the contention and the desire for a more progressive wing within the party.
This is problematic because it ultimately leads to people becoming disenfranchised with that party and with the political process in general, because they never see their candidates making it to the general election.
Yes, it is important for moderate candidates to make it to the general election, but over the entire history of presidential and and gubernatorial politics, people have moderated once they've gotten the nomination.
We don't think that it's a major issue for candidates, and especially in the current time when persons like when people like donald trump can be elected and theresa may can be elected in the united kingdom, it's not especially important that moderation happened for the party to survive but simply that the base is heard, that people feel like they have a say in the party that they give their money and time to.
We think that open primaries massively dilute that process.
And it's not like individuals cannot choose to become a member of that party if they feel so deeply about it.
You can still switch affiliation between political cycles if you feel so strongly about voting.
We don't think that open primaries are the only way for participation to occur, but open primaries certainly avoid the potential for parties to learn from their base, communicate with their base, and yield a candidate that their base, the people that they exist to represent, want to have.
For those reasons, we should abolish open primaries in the united states.