We should not abandon coal mining.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think abandoning coal mining would be problematic.
Our conception of what it means to abandon coal mining is to decrease in and eventually stop the use of coal mining in the near future.
So we don't think this is a debate that takes place, say, twenty, thirty years down the road in which technologies may exist that make coal mining fundamentally obsolete, but we think this is a debate that takes place in the present, that it's a debate about whether or not we should turn down our production of coal in the immediate future.
So that's where we think this debate exists, and that's a problem.
So, firstly, we have a need for coal that actually we need coal mining to meet.
While global warming is certainly bad and people that want us to ban coal mining would say in order to protect the environment, we need to ban coal.
But our societies have energy needs that we simply cannot ignore.
Billions of people around the world require the energy that the grid puts out in order to sustain their jobs, to sustain their lives, to support their families, all these things that are incredibly crucial in the short term and the long term, and so we can't just all of a sudden choose to abandon coal entirely, because huge parts of our electrical grid and energy providers come from coal.
Coal is a massive amount is a massive resource for energy in the status quo across both developed and developing nations.
We think it's unrealistic that this changes in the next ten years.
Certainly, people will start shifting towards green technology.
We've seen that in places like paris, in england, places that are pledging to shift away from coal, but it's unrealistic in the next ten years to expect that the grid will not still require a massive amount of coal.
So we need to continue to provide coal.
We think abandoning coal mining at this juncture would be disastrous.
It would lead to power outages and huge economic harm that we simply think is not worth the little bit of gain that you get in fighting global warming.
Secondarily, let's talk about the economic benefits of coal mining.
Recognize that coal mining is something that is a relatively low-skilled job, meaning that with enough training, with maybe a few weeks of training and the and the right equipment, most people who are physically fit can do the job of coal mining.
And this means that this is this is a boon potentially for people who are not skilled laborers, people that do not have high levels of education, and these are often people that exist in place where unemployment rates are super high.
For example, in west virginia in the united states, coal country of the united states, there are immense amounts of unemployment in the status quo in these regions, and one of the main employers for these regions are coal miners, are coal mining operations.
Because we think that there's an immense benefit of employing these people because without these jobs there right now, the economies in these areas would collapse entirely.
Unemployment would soar above fifty percent, there would be massive harms to these people in an area that is already being harmed internally, that already is seeing populations suffer from things like opioid epidemics and a lack of resources.
We these jobs are also beneficial because they can't be shipped abroad, unlike other low-skilled labor jobs.
We think that it's important to repair the economic angst that currently exists in our world to allow these jobs to continue to exist, to allow people to continue to have jobs in an area where no jobs are moving in.
There's no new tech company that's coming to the mountains of appalachia, there's no new job provider that's coming into the area, but coal is a reliant provider of jobs in this in this area, and we don't think need to be abandoned.
For these reasons, we should not abandon coal mining.