We should not fight for tibetan independence.
When we say we think what's first important to understand in this debate is what we actually mean when we say we're going to fight for tibetan independence.
We think that fight implies that outside agents are going to advocate for tibetan independence, such as the west, and regional powers, such as india.
So we think in this debate we're not just talking about members citizens of tibet fighting for their independence but also outside agents doing so.
So with that in mind we have two main arguments.
The first is about global repercussions of such actions and the second is about why autonomy is preferable to independence.
So firstly on those global repercussions.
China is incredibly protective over its fear of influence.
We can see this, for example, in how far it goes to protect north korea, and ally to which china receives almost nothing in return, an ally that is globally condemned from almost every other actor throughout the globe an an actor that brings no benefit to china.
But china wants to exert its fear of influence, it wants to show itself as a global superpower and in order to do that it needs to maintain regional supremacy over those that are directly under its sphere of influence.
We think that by by going against china in such a dramatic way this isn't just a state that china believes to be under its sphere of influence, this is what china believes to be an actual part of its country, an actual part of its nation and by going against that we undermine the internal stability of china in the eyes of chinese leaders.
What would we think is likely to arise from this?
Firstly we think you have a much higher increase in the likelihood of conflict.
This isn't just conflict against the united states and against the west but this is also conflict against other regional actors such as india.
We think that any sort of conflict on that scale would be dramatic and incredibly deadly and we think that even a small increase in the likelihood of that needs to be avoided.
We also think you expand that china would look to expand to other areas to increase its influence, such as sub saharan africa and south america.
Something that china is already doing economically but can also begin do do politically which means that if the united states and the west were to try and exert its influence over china's sphere, we think that china is likely going to do the same thing back removing the political clout of these states to act in instances in which human rights abuses are occurring in the future in its own regions.
Finally we think that you're likely to get more aggressive trade policies out of china which which includes increasing the cost of their cheap exports which the west relies on.
We think that given that the west is very dependent on exports out of china that china is a major trading power for for for many countries around the globe we don't think that that is something that, economically, the west can afford to take on.
So onto autonomy.
We think that autonomy is simply preferable to independence.
This is something that the dalai lama has come out and supported himself which means that we think it needs to be taken quite seriously.
What are the benefits of autonomy?
Firstly, we think china is much more willing to concede autonomy.
This is a protracted fight, yes, but it's a fight that you're much more likely to win than one that actually gains tibetan independence.
We think you are that china already allows it in the tibetan autonomous region.
We think that china is willing to allow self governance to an immense degree within tibet.
China just wants to be able to maintain its its external view around the world that it wants to be able to project power and autonomy still allows it to project power because tibet is still technically a member of its state.
Autonomy also allows for tibet to receive chinese resources and avoid the threat of china on its immediate border.
China is developing incredibly quickly.
It has a growing economy and access to all of these things would actually allow tibet to develop at a much more rapid pace.
Tibet is rather poor in the status quo we think that having the assistance of china while being able to govern its own internal affairs to a dramatic degree through having autonomy is the best of both worlds and creates an state of international affairs in which china is not going to go around and create problems for the west and for its neighbors.
For these reasons we should not fight for tibetan independence.