We should not fight illegal immigration.
In this round, what we're going to argue for is that we think that generally countries should adopt a policy of open borders.
Now we know that open borders aren't perfect in all situations, but we think that as a principle, especially for developed nations, open borders are the way to go.
So let's walk through this argument.
First, it's important to recognize that borders are entirely arbitrary.
There simply means of exclusion the means of delineation that have been created by people but these borders are often not created based on anything that's tangible something like a cultural divide or something like a barrier as far as a geographic barrier.
These aren't things that are set in stone nor are they things that are especially tangible as far as as far as what's differentiating countries from their neighbors.
We think that citizenship in most countries comes from moral luck.
This means that for the vast majority of citizens, the citizenship that you have is based on where you were born.
For most citizens, the united states for example, your citizenship is earned on birth and there's nothing you've had to do to actually make yourself deserving of that citizenship besides having the luck to be born in this country.
But we think moral luck is a horrible determinant of who deserves to be a citizen and who does not.
We think that based on everyone's equal claim as a human being everyone has equal moral worth.
Now whether you think that's a lot of moral worth or not that much moral work is irrelevant but all people should be born and should and are endowed with the same moral weight.
Because of this, we think that everyone has an equal desert claim to citizenship.
Like there's nothing about the fact that I was born in the united states that makes me more deserving of being a US citizen than someone that was say born in mexico.
It just happens to be the case that one of us was born here and one of us was born in mexico.
But again there's nothing about that lottery of birth that means that I earned my citizenship and likewise there's nothing that made that person an undeserving because of where they were born and because of this we think that we should have a system that recognizes the arbitrary nature of citizenship and then allows people to emigrate to the countries that they see fit.
So why do people immigrate illegally in the status quo?
There's a few reasons.
First, the system right now simply doesn't allow for legal immigration.
We think that most people if they could would legally immigrate instead of illegally emigrate because there's huge costs of getting caught if you illegally immigrate.
But there's problems that exist in the status quo like huge wait lists and bad visa systems and for people that are seeking a better life either trying to flee from violence that exists in their country, fleeing from political instability, fleeing from a lack of economic opportunity and prosperity, these are all things that have tangible and harmful impacts on the people that are illegally immigrating in the status quo and we think that their pursuits, the things that they're trying to get and have a safer life for their family and their children that's a noble pursuit and we shouldn't diminish the opportunity for these people to pursue these ends.
Everyone based on their moral worth should be able to pursue ends that they feel are those that will allow them to self-actualize, that will allow them to reach their highest potential and just because someone was born in a different country doesn't mean that they shouldn't have those same opportunities.
Additionally, once people are here, which is another part of fighting illegal immigration, we think it's wrong to kick people out who have established a life here, who have been meaningful members of their community, who have been contributing to the community, and who have formed bonds within those communities.
To kick them out is to again act based on this arbitrary impulse that we have that borders exist and they must be upheld.
But that is far from the case and for these reasons, we should not fight illegal immigration.