We should not fight nationalism.
At the very top of this debate, we think it's important to define what nationalism is and is not, because many people misconstrue nationalism with hate.
They misconstrue nationalism with discrimination.
But we don't think that that is necessarily what nationalism needs to be.
Nationalism is pride in one's country.
It's exclusionary for sure.
Obviously, your pride in your people, in your country, definitely means that you don't have that same sort of connection with other nations, but it doesn't mean that it's racialized or that that idea of what the nation is and what your country is, who your people are, isn't fluid.
And certainly, we can see in places like the united states that the idea of the nation of the united states has changed tremendously over the course of its history, from largely a nation of white property owners to a massively diverse country that it is today.
Firstly, we think that nationalism drives a sense of community.
People feel connection that they otherwise wouldn't have with their neighbors.
Yes, you can form some sort of bond with your neighbor.
You can form some sort of bond with your community.
But of the larger connection that you have outside of your very local area, there's not much that connects you to other people.
But we think that what can connect you is that sense of national pride, that sense of community, that sense that everyone is working together for a common cause, that everyone is fighting the same battles, and that everyone is on the same side.
This also maintains peace and stability within borders.
The alternative to nationalism is likely a frayed state, is a state in which people don't have some sort of identification with their national government and because of that, they turn to more localized governments and more regionalized nationalism.
We think that the problem with that is that you're likely to have more interstate conflict or intrastate conflict, and you're likely to have less stability amongst the government.
It also gives a common connection point.
My my being an american allows me to connect with every other american because I have the shared experience of what it means to be in this country, what it means to have some sort of national pride and pride in america.
And finally, we think that these all these things are good because it drives social improvements and gives it governmental foundation.
When you have a connection with all people in your country, you have a reason to want to see all of those people succeed.
You've a reason to push for things like welfare, to push for things like the improvements of people that otherwise you wouldn't identify with, and we think that this could only be good.
Secondly, it gives you an appreciation for your history.
National pride forces you to understand where your past is and how you've evolved and how you've grown.
It ensures that the stories of the past that people that worked hard to form the foundation of the lives that we are able to live are not forgotten, and it ensures that their memory can live on and that their actions, their deeds, things that are should be applauded are things that we will continue to know.
Because nationalism is largely built on the idea of a shared history, on the idea of those people in our past that brought us to where we are today, we think unless you define nationalism as racism, unless you define nationalism as xenophobia, which are not the same phenomena, these are distinct things, yes, nationalism can can empirically does often involve things like racism, but we don't think that that's the way that it needs to be.
We think that we can argue against racism and still have a fully-fledged nationalism, that we can still have intense national pride without being hateful towards those who are on the outside.
And when you define it like that, we think nationalism is, at worst, neutral and, at best, something that drives a community and drives a state forward through progress.
For these reasons, we should not fight nationalism.