We should not fight sedentary lifestyle.
So, in this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we don't think it is necessary to fight the increasing trend of the sedentary lifestyle.
And we think that, on the surface, a sedentary lifestyle seems like a bad thing.
We see rising rates of obesity around the world.
We see more people suffering from things like diabetes and heart disease.
And we see people that are more often sitting at home, staying on their couch, not going out for entertainment, working at jobs that force them to sit down all day or are largely able to be done if you're sitting all day, and we think that this is overall a problem.
But we think that there are many reasons for rising levels of obesity.
We don't think that the sedentary lifestyle necessarily requires zero physical activity or an unhealthy type of living, and we think that it's actually a sign of technological advancement.
When we talk about the sedentary lifestyle, the thing that is most linked to it is how you're spending the majority of your day, because for for centuries now, people have spent their time of relaxation sitting , you know, doing things in front of a TV.
Like it's not legal leisure time has always been this this robust physical thing.
Sure, maybe people used to spend a little more time outside playing kickball and a little less time inside playing video games but for the most part, adults have always had fairly leisurely time when they're relaxing.
But what's really changed is how people spend their working hours.
If you make a comparison between now and a century ago, we think a much bigger difference than how people spend their leisure time is the fact that more and more people have jobs that are specialized, have jobs in office places, or jobs that don't require physical, hard and manual label, factory jobs, mining jobs, jobs that require you to be on your feet all day are just at a much lower availability now because of the rise of technological innovation.
And we think that that rise in and of itself has been amazing for humanity.
It has allowed for more growth of of national product as well as for higher quality of lives for more people.
It's ensured that workplace safety has gotten to a much higher level.
It means that fewer people are injured or face long-term health risk because because of the jobs they're performing.
It means, on average, people are being paid at higher levels, and it means that people are able to specialize in ways that allow us to advance more as a society.
We think that all these things are beneficial and that they are all intrinsically tied to the sedentary lifestyle.
So when you say we should fight the sedentary lifestyle, you're saying we should revert to a time in which people had to spend more of their time performing manual and physical labor.
It means not having people working in these specialized jobs that are incredibly important for humanity, and we think that that would be a major step back in our advancement as a species.
You can still do things like exercise regularly.
You can still spend an hour a day going to the gym or going for a walk and have a largely sedentary lifestyle.
It's not an all-or-nothing proposition, the trend of the sedentary lifestyle, but rather it's a growth in people spending a larger proportion of their time being sedentary.
But you don't need to be active, physically active, eight to ten hours a day in order to be a healthy person.
There are plenty of people that work office jobs that have rather sedentary lives that also eat healthy and work out half an hour to an hour a day in order to make sure that they perform and are at relatively high level of health, and this we think is fine and is not exclusionary for the sedentary lifestyle.
But fighting the sedentary lifestyle, in practice, requires us to to revert the jobs that we've gained as a society.
For these reasons, we should not fight sedentary lifestyle.