We should not abandon television.
In all debates about television there is inevitably a reference to streaming talking about how streaming is the future, streaming is far better for all the points that the government points out, that you have more selectivity, that it allows you to view things on demand, that it gets you to have more autonomy over what you're supporting.
But the problem with this is that streaming is in its nascent stage of development and it is about to get way pricier.
We see things like disney about to open up its own streaming service.
We see things like television networks like CBS starting their own streaming platforms and we think that ultimately, streaming is going to become much like cable where if you want to get all of your favorite shows you're going to have to buy either a bundle of services or you're going to have to pay for a number of different services which means that cable and streaming TV and streaming are not all that different.
The first argument they make is that television is obsolete in the way that we bundle channels, sets people up to over price in that streaming allows for more select for a more selective way of viewing TV.
So the first argument is exactly what I just said that streaming through things like disney creating a new platform is about to get much more expensive because if all content creators are creating their own streaming platforms because they see how lucrative things like hulu and netflix are one, they're going to pull their content from hulu and netflix and two, you're going to have to start purchasing all of these other streaming services which means it's probably just more efficient economically to just buy cable and have access to all these different things.
But secondly and incredibly importantly, good streaming services require the financial backing of TV because television programs are what draw people in to the streaming services.
Look at netflix for example, the most popular things that are streamed on netflix are not networks originals and are not what drew people into netflix to start with.
But it's the fact that you could watch parks and recreation and the office and archer and other shows that were only made possible because of the high production budgets of television and so we think that to have quality content like what we enjoy, you need the balance of low cost streaming services or even things like youtube and higher cost, higher production value services that you get through things like cable.
They say that TV isn't diverse but first, this is a huge generalization.
There are a number of different TV networks that are becoming progressively more diverse to get with the times.
Second, is that streaming is just not immensely better.
If you look at the front page of youtube any day it's mostly going to be a bunch of white dudes and thirdly, this isn't an argument for why we need to abandon television, it's a reason why we should have both, why we should seek out diverse contact.
The final argument they make under this is that smaller artists are able to break through with streaming.
Again this doesn't explain why we need to abandon television.
This is just a reason why youtube is a good thing to have and the second thing is that as you can see from many people that start on youtube people jump ship to television because it provides a much wider audience that they can access so it allows smaller artists to build themselves up into a larger brand that's ultimately better for them.
The second thing, the last argument they make is that there's more spending autonomy through things like streaming.
You don't need to support problematic channels because you just want to watch you know one channel but you also need to get fox and you're not a conservative and you don't want to pay fox.
Well first and most importantly, most revenue comes through advertising anyway.
The amount of money that I'm giving to fox because I buy a basic cable package is incredibly small compared to the actual revenue that they generate from advertising.
Second, this same problem exists on netflix.
Like if you think that a lot of the content on netflix is problematic, you're still funding netflix so they can pay for that content.
So it's not like this doesn't exist in other spheres and finally as we mentioned earlier this bundling creates better content because it pours more money into the system that allow for higher production value shows which are ultimately the things that are the most popular with consumers.
For these reasons, we should not abandon television.