Casinos should not be banned.
In this round, we're going to do two things.
We're going to, first, give a positive and principled explanation for why we think casinos shouldn't be banned by the government, why this would be an unjust ban, and then we're going to respond to the arguments that the government side makes.
So, first, why do we think that this would be an unjust ban?
We think that the very purpose of the state is not to dictate how people ought and ought not spend their money or dictate what people do in their own private lives, but rather to create an apparatus in which people have the freedom to make decisions based on their basic rights: their right to property, their right to liberty, these types of things.
We think that casinos, while they may cause detrimental behavior in some cases, while they may have the why they may promote things like gambling addiction for certain people, at the end of the day, the government's job is not to say that people cannot spend their money gambling if they would like to do so.
So long as they're not creating some sort of direct third-party harm, people have the right to make those decisions with their money.
And we think that people often the vast majority of people, one: are not addicted to gambling, so when we're talking about the general public, we're not talking about people that have a serious problem with it ; and two: we think that people have a a general knowledge that gambling is gambling, and going to casinos is unlikely to be something that's going to be a large benefit to yourself.
Like people don't go to casinos, for the most part, to make money.
We think that this sort of idea that the government side presents, saying that it targets vulnerable people and and casinos are like based on this promise of riches, I think that this is, one, non-unique.
Like most products oversell themselves in the market, and we allow those types of hyperbolic things legally, because people are able to recognize that that hyperbole is not true.
But also, we think that just the general knowledge is such that people know they're probably not going to make a lot of money on casinos.
So given that there's no direct third-party harm from this gambling in casinos, we think the government is not obliged or even even granted the power legitimately to ban casinos.
But let's talk a little more directly about the government side's arguments.
The first argument is, essentially, gambling is like an addiction for many people, that studies show that those that are gambling addicts have similar chemical reactions or chemical processes going on to those that are drug addicts and because we regulate drugs, we should also regulate gambling and ban it.
So, first, this is just a massive is-ought fallacy.
The government doesn't explain why it's a good thing that we currently treat drugs the way we do, and we think, in fact, the way that we have outright prohibited drug use has been a major problem in our society and has caused many harms in and of itself.
But additionally, we think that, unlike certain drugs like heroin, where you are incredibly likely to get addicted and therefore the government may have a certain interest in making sure that you don't do things like heroin, we think that the government doesn't have that same interest in banning casinos, because most people that go to a casino don't get addicted to gambling.
It's a much lower rate of harm and, therefore, the government isn't really isn't justified in acting for some sort of nebulous purpose of the benefit of the of the people, the benefit of the polity.
The government also then makes the argument that gambling casinos, they're just a bad use of resources.
Again, we don't think it's the job of the government to ban you from spending money in the way that that you see fit.
The final argument that the government side makes is that casinos are bad, for a number of reasons, for the local area, because it causes economic depression, pushes out other businesses, and promotes a lack of other criminal activity.
Look, first, I think that empirically is not true that these areas have higher rates of criminality.
But if you buy what the government side is saying, we think it's fine to allow communities, on their own, to block casinos, but we think that a blanket ban on casinos, in all instances, is generally a bad policy, and getting communal approval for one is a good way of checking against all of the harms that the government presents.
For these reasons, casinos should not be banned.