We should not fight global warming.
So, in this round, we're not gonna take the stances I think that the government side thought we were going to take.
We are not climate change deniers.
We believe, in fact, that global warming is a serious long-term and short-term threat to the survival of humanity.
The problem that we see is not that global warming is not a threat, but rather it is a threat that is so large and so definitive that it is unlikely that we will be able to do anything in the next several years to make a meaningful dent on the impacts that are going to come from global warming.
Because of that, we think that when you're thinking about fighting global warming, what does this mean?
It means limiting the resources you can use to green technologies.
It means limiting the actions you take to impact the environment.
It means limiting your development as a country.
All of these things we think you shouldn't do, because we think that countries around the world should develop as much as possible, as quickly as possible, using whatever resources are available to them in order to prepare for the changes that are going to come from global warming.
This means building up massive floodwalls.
This means developing a ton of new real estate inland of current countries.
This means trying to overfarm as much as you can so that you can yield surplus crops to to be able to get ready for the downturn that's probably coming to agriculture.
It means investing in desalination which can in and in itself cause more carbon emissions.
All these things are necessary in order to ensure that the worst outcomes of global warming, which are almost certainly going to happen, do as little damage as possible to the human species.
So that being said, we should address the arguments that the government makes, even though we don't really disagree with them on a principled level.
The first argument they make is that, first, most importantly, the economy doesn't matter if it costs tons of human deaths.
And we agree, but we don't think that the purpose of development is necessarily to make people richer, but it's rather to get as much infrastructure built up in a much and especially inland as possible in order to have some sort of stable footing for your society that it can weather hard times.
Next, the government side goes on to say that global warming is a threat.
And they point out that this is a fact of science, that in the short term, there's billions of dollars of damage and loss and deaths every single year because of natural disasters that are being made worse by climate change and that in the long term, it could make the earth virtually uninhabitable.
Yes, all of these things are true.
The problem with this, though, is that in order for us to actually make such in order for us to make a change in our current society to the point where we are not definitively going to to exceed something like a four four degrees celsius warming by the end of the century, on average, we would need to make such an immense changes to our society.
It would essentially mean we have to stop using all fossil fuels in all societies, right now, which is impossible.
Just based on how our society is founded, that change is never going to happen.
So, if we're not going to go all in on this fight to the point where it makes a difference, we should instead go into preparation for doomsday rather than trying to waste resources that otherwise could have been used to build up our survival strategy.
Finally, the government side goes on to explain why global warming is going to be economically bad, that you're gonna lose a lot of a lot of land for housing and crops, diseases are likely to spread, etcetera, and that innovation comes from green technology, which is a benefit of the fight against global warming.
And we're fine with green technology but for economic purposes, not not at the exclusion of fossil fuels and not in this kind of drive to fight global warming.
Because, as we've stated, based on what many scientists have measured, we simply are not making the fundamental changes that we need to make and, at this point, cannot make those fundamental changes quick enough without massive upheaval and loss of human life in and of itself, and instead of fighting fighting global warming, we should prepare for global warming.
For these reasons, we should not fight global warming.