We should not abolish primary elections.
We think that there are two main arguments that we want to make today about why primary elections are beneficial not just to the people, but also to the parties that represent them.
So the first argument we're gonna make is about building and reassessing party ideology, and the second is about sorting and how it tends to breed moderation.
So on the first point: primaries are an opportunity to reassess the party direction.
It is an opportunity prior to an election to see what factions of any particular party are those that are most popular with your major supporters, with the people that the party represents.
And we think that this is an invaluable opportunity for parties that they want to be successful moving forward.
Parties exist primarily to serve their members.
These are the people that are paying dues to the party.
These are the people that organize and volunteer for the party.
They should have some sort of say in the party direction if they're going to put in all of this effort to ensuring that the party is able to thrive, especially because that is the promise the party makes tacitly and explicitly when they say, " we exist to represent you.
We exist as a party to serve our constituents. "
Parties have many factions, and electing one faction sends a signal as to what issues should be prioritized and how the members of that party want the party to govern.
It sends both a message about what issues are important and what issues get people elected, and it sends a message about what direction the party is currently going in as far as a governing style outside of policy-making decisions.
We think that the opportunity for members of the party to send this message to the party the to the party leadership gives party leadership an opportunity to adjust, to make itself more robustly representative of the people that it serves.
And by removing these primaries, we think you're much more likely to get an option that is less democratic, a situation where party elites pick who's being elected and who's being nominated for positions, which is how it was prior to the nineteen sixties, or you get a situation where you have a very broad general election, and the more people from your party that you have running, the more likely you are to end up in a situation in which no one member of your party is able to get a plurality of the votes, and that weakens your party moving forward, both of which we think are bad options.
Secondly, we think that sorting tends to breed moderation.
Primaries tend to create electable candidates because the party has the opportunity and the time span to coalesce around one moderate candidate.
The reason that they coalesce around moderate candidates is because at over the course of a primary season, people are all able to see which candidates are the most electable, which ones appeal to the general public and are able to represent their views moving forward.
Yes, donald trump got elected and that kind of bucks the trend but, for the most part, primaries tend to bring the most moderate candidates forward, for example, hillary clinton being nominated over bernie sanders, a much more moderate candidate than the leftist that is bernie sanders.
We think that a long primary season gives the opportunity to see polling, learn who's broadly electable, and gives a long vetting process to these candidates.
The reason that this is good is because when you get a more moderate candidate, even if your party is the one that lost, you're more likely to get a candidate that is going to broadly represent the middle of the aisle and the middle of american politics, which means that candidate is more likely to be broadly representative of all people, even if they obviously skewed towards representing constituents in their own party and members of their own party and that ideology.
When you have a moderate member putting forward that ideology, rather than in an incredibly far left or far right manner, you're more likely to build a representative democracy that actually represents the whole of the people, which is the purpose of democracy, if not the purpose of parties.
For these reasons, we should not abolish primary elections.