The right to asylum is not absolute.
To be clear, the right to if the right to asylum were absolute, what this means is that there is no instance in which one can be denied asylum, which means that if someone is being persecuted within their country for any variety of reasons, if someone is not able to live safely within their home and would qualify as a refugee or an asylum seeker, that that person needs to be accepted by any state that they tried to go to, because the right of asylum is absolute, and therefore the state can't make subjective choices about whether or not they're going to admit individuals.
Okay.
So, two we have number of reasons as to why this just isn't feasible.
We think that an absolute right is problematic for states to function on, because states essentially need to be utilitarian.
States have obligations to their citizens that come prior to any other obligations they hold.
Because the state is essentially a coercive force that controls house individuals within its borders can function, and because individuals by and large are born in those states, become citizens in those states without their consent, and are forced to live under those types of laws, their rights and their protections need to come prior in order for the state to be just, rather than to be coercive.
So, given that the state exists to serve its citizens, we think that it's clear that refugees and asylum seekers may have equal rights, like probably they may have equal moral claims to these types of things, but the state as an arbiter of those rights needs to give preference to one over the other.
We think that if you give these that to have an absolute right to asylum would be to grant all individuals, both those that are your citizens and potential asylum seekers, the exact same rights, or the exact same rights and protections.
So, there are a few reasons why this just might be a problem.
In instances in which you may need to restrict the the ability for people to enter.
Firstly, if you're an asylum seeker from an area in which a plague has just broken out and which you may be carrying, viruses that could contaminate the population in which if it was a disease that could be spread throughout society rather quickly, we think this is an instance in which it's clear that the society and the state needs to give preference to its citizens, it needs to restrain the ability for that person to enter the country, even though they may be under duress, even they may be under attack by their own society, by their own civilization.
Given that it would be a harm to the state if this person were to come in, we think that the overriding rights of the majority within the state would outweigh.
Secondly, if people are seeking asylum en masse, because there were a large conflict going on in the region, say there is a massive amount of refugees seeking asylum, we think it could be simply a too great of an economic cost.
Given that the economy and how the economy is functioning is crucial to the well-being of citizens within a state, and that the state has a fungible amount of resources that it can drain on doing things like providing social welfare, providing food, providing for the basic necessities of the citizens, if refugees and asylum seekers are coming into the country en masse, and we've seen this in europe, we've seen this in states, especially in the middle east, in which refugee camps are existing en masse right now, what this means is that there's a massive drain on resources that the state has.
When this occurs, it means that the quality of life of those within the state can can decline dramatically because of the strain on resources, even those that exist within the states, within the within the home state who have who need to access social goods through the state, who are impoverished otherwise, discriminated against in the marketplace that need these types of resources for survival, can be stripped of them when you allow for an absolute right to asylum.
We think it's clear that there are certain restrictions that in certain instances mean that the state needs to weigh the rights of those within its borders over those outside of its borders.
Otherwise the state is simply a coercive body that arbitrarily controls the lives of those within its borders, but doesn't control the lives of those outside of its borders.
In order to justify that type of coercive capability, the state needs to give preference to its citizens, and sometimes asylum seekers go contradictory to that.
We don't think that the vast majority of instances people should be declined the right to asylum, but we certainly think that the right of asylum is not absolute.