Adopt open source software.
So, we think there are a couple reasons why open source software is less preferable, than proprietary software, or other software that is made by development companies and then kept the code is kept closed, so that other people can't manipulate it and do other things to it, without being sued for violation of intellectual property.
So, the first is that we think that open source software is simply less safe than comparable software.
The reason for this is few things, first: recognize that the nature of open source software is such, that it's open, the code is open for anyone that wants to access it, to manipulate it in any which way, to make edits to it, to change it, and to put it back out there for other people to use.
So, you can take someone's platform, you can take someone's programming, you can manipulate a little bit, and then put it out.
Usually this this is like heralded as a good thing, because it means that there's more opportunity for collaboration between different programmers, and different companies, and that it means that you're more likely to get a diverse, more user centered, product, than you are otherwise, if you just have kind of a black box, that has the information, that works in a certain way, and can't be edited in any way.
But the problem with this is that it also means, that it's incredibly easy for someone to take this software, manipulate it in such a way, that there's a couple of lines of of a malicious virus, or some other adware, or something like this, into open source software, and then to go from there, to put it online, publish it as if it was the same thing it always was, and from there cause any number of computers to be infiltrated with the virus, or what have you, because it's very easy to hide a couple of lines of code into an entire software program, and because of this, we think it's simply the case that you're less likely to have a guarantee of safety with open source software.
The other thing is that we think that, if you're using open source software on a platform to store information or what have you, again you' you're more prone to be hacked than you are through proprietary software, because all of the information about the coding of the software is is publicly out there.
And it means that, at any time, someone can try and hack into that software.
The second reason, why we think open source software is less preferable than proprietary software, is that it simply is less profitable for businesses to adopt, and to create.
The first reason is that proprietary software is software that you're more likely to have robust customer support around, because it's made by one company, it is a streamlined process, which means that the development goals of that product are very narrowly tailored to suit a certain purpose.
What this means is that you're less likely to get software, that has a diverse amount of different futures and options, but doesn't really work as a whole product as well.
Because, it's very difficult to direct how these products are going to be created, if it's made in a collaborative form between a number of coders, but if you have proprietary software being developed by one company, with one united goal, that is being directed from the top down, we think it's more likely that you're going to you're going to get not only useful customer support, but you're more likely to get a product that has a very well designed, and narrowly tailored purpose, that we think is more effective for businesses and for individuals.
We also think, that as far as development is concerned, open source software is simply less profitable than proprietary software, because it's more easy for people to get the software for free, it's more easy for people to make manipulations of this software, make it better and then undermine your customer base.
Because of all these things, we simply think that as a business, as as a financial decision, it makes more sense to create proprietary software, that you then lease or sell to other people and they use through your business.
We think, from a business perspective, if you're going to adopt software, it's much safer to adopt proprietary software, and it's much more likely that you'll get good customers support to make that software useful.
For all these reasons, we should not adopt open source software.