We should not abolish homework.
We think that when people think of homework, they tend to misconstrue it as something that teachers give so that there's another grade that people can have, so that there's just something that pads the grades of students and that it forces them to do work outside of school unjustly, but we think this misses fundamentally the entire point of homework, and we think that this misunderstanding is what underlies this debate.
We think that the ultimate point of homework is not to force people to have another grade and it's not to make people work outside of school, but it's that in order for you to learn properly, you need to have constant practice, you need to sharpen skills outside of what is possible in just a short class period.
In order for the pace of education to maintain a a quick pace, in order for you to get through lessons quickly, you need to have some sort of hands-on problem-solving when it comes to this type of work.
We think that, and this is what is backed by science, by research about our education system, is that when you are putting more effort into reinforcing the lessons of the day, if you go to a class and you get this you get this lesson, say, about spelling at at a young age, and then you go home and you have to write out those words five times each, ten times each you know, once a night, if you have to do if you have to use those words in a sentence, for example, these are typical examples of homework, and these are how we reinforce those lessons.
It's you learn the patterns that the homework forces you to do, and you get a better understanding of what you actually were doing.
If I tell you how to learn if I tell you how to spell a word, you might remember it for a short period of time, but if I make you spell that word fifty times in the course of a week, you're going to remember it for the rest of your life.
We think that just having lessons in school each day does not embed concepts in student's head and that homework is an essential learning tool that doesn't just exist to make students miserable.
So, let's talk about how we can reduce the harms that come from homework, because we recognize that there are certainly harms in the status quo.
One of the major complaints is that there's simply not enough time in today's day and age for students to do homework given that students, especially at higher levels of education, are expected to be involved in extracurriculars, and volunteer, and have a part-time job, and there's just not enough time in the course of the day to do homework, and to sleep, and to do all of these other things, and even to have a social life on top of that.
We think that the way that you can reduce this is through coordination between teachers, that a major problem that comes up with homework is that students will have a a day in which they have a mountain of homework, because each class is giving them an above-average amount of homework for the day.
But if you have teachers coordinate, if you have teachers get together and say, " okay, this is the homework I need to I need to give this week in order to reinforce what we've done in class this week.
We think it'll take this amount of time to do it each night for the average student, " you can divvy that homework up in such a way that it's even across those classes, and you can set caps on these things.
You can say: as a total, a student shouldn't have to be doing more than an hour, an hour and a half of homework outside of class each day.
But we think that this hour and a half of homework is crucial to learning more about about what was done in school.
Some people say there needs to be the sort of school-life divide, but if we want our education system to work at the highest level, if we want students to really engage with material and really take things out of the class of the day, they need to be doing homework, they need to be reinforcing through pattern recognition and through repetitive behavior.
They need to be reinforcing what they did in class, and for these reasons, we should not abolish homework.