We should ban fishing.
When we say we're going to ban fishing we don't just mean limitations, we're going to say severe punishments for anyone that's caught either recreationally or commercially fishing.
Two main arguments: the first and most important is about animal rights.
We think that animals ought be afforded rights and this point is going to explain to you why.
First and foremost we'd say that rights are a social construct.
They're not something that is drawn out of the universal ether that exists all around us.
They're not some sort of absolute moral truths but rather they're something that we create as a society.
In order for those rights to have meaning, we say they must be both principled and consistent.
A principle that underlies that right insures that it has just application and by this we mean if you have a good principal that's underlying your rights framework, then you can know that the rights that are derived from that principle are just rights and rights that should be extended to people.
Secondarily, consistency means that there aren't arbitrary exclusions or abuses and we think that the nature of a right is something that doesn't just become afforded to people in certain instances.
It's not just something that we give to people in certain circumstances or because they are of a certain creed or color or affiliation or religious group or anything like that.
A right we think must be universal and therefore consistency in its application is important.
We'd say that all rights frameworks ultimately come down to pleasure maximization and pain minimization and the reason for this is that even if you believe in some sort of deontological idea of rights what you dictate as a right, what you ultimately choose to designate as a right is ultimately determined by the utility of that designation.
Does designating something like freedom of speech as a right does that make it something that is beneficial?
Is their a benefit that can be derived from it?
We think the underlying principle therefore, is pleasure and pain.
That we create rights based on maximizing pleasure and minimizing pain.
Well if that is the principle that we are applying, we're building rights out based on that, we don't think that it's fair to exclude animals, and in this instance fish, simply because fish do experience pleasure and pain.
We think that excluding them would become an arbitrary exclusion because if we exclude them because they're not in our species, our species has nothing to do with the principles that we are deriving rights from.
The rights for the derivation of rights based on humanity is arbitrary and is ultimately just a side step of what we really are bringing our what we really are creating our rights from.
Certainly fish don't need the same rights as people but a basic right to life that fishing violates should certainly be include and ultimately there's no countervailing rights claim in this instance because fishing is not necessary for human survival and therefore, you can ban fishing without causing serious human harm.
So the second point we want to talk about briefly is the problem with overfishing and ecological problems.
Recognize that ocean food chains are incredibly important for preserving life on our planet.
Life began in our oceans and it's an incredibly delicate ecosystem that provides most of the oxygen that we have in the on the planet and also takes in much of the carbon dioxide that's emitted.
Overfishing has thrown these ecologies massively out of whack and in order to actually bring those ecologies back to where they were, in order to restore them to a healthy equilibrium, we need to ban fishing to return things to a point at which fish can begin to grow naturally again, they can begin to come back into the environments that they've been massively wiped out from, and in order to preserve ourselves, our oceans, and our rights frameworks, we say that we should ban fishing.