We should subsidize student loans.
So we think that this is mostly a principle debate but just to give a model out there, we think that we're willing to subsidize student loans to an incredible amount, both private and federal loans.
We're willing to subsidize those student loans up to and including one hundred percent of the loan based on how large the loan is.
We think that this debate really is about the principle though, so let's get into the principle.
First, we think that this dramatically increases access to education.
Let's face it, college today is incredibly expensive and not only is it incredibly expensive, but it's increasing in cost every single year going up by as much as one to two percent every year on costs that are already exceeding fifty, sixty thousand dollars.
There are more and more jobs additionally that require a college degree.
So if you want to access that part of the economic sector, the part that happens to be the one that allows you to have the highest quality of life, the highest potential earnings, the highest ability of freedom, and the best ability to set yourself up in a secure economic situation, you need to go to college.
Education is recognized as a right up to the age of eighteen in most countries.
We think it should extend beyond that especially because just like a GED has always been a necessary requirement to get a decent job, college is now becoming a necessary requirement to get a decent job.
You need it to thrive in society and given that this is the case, we think that the government should protect rights and protect individual's ability to do things that are necessary and required by the society they're living in.
We think that subsidizing student loans makes them obviously more affordable and it increases access for people of all economic levels to go to university.
It doesn't just help those that are the poorest, those that never would have taken out loans in the first place, but it helps those that also took out these loans and are now struggling in in their life post college.
That's what we're gonna talk about next.
We think it is simply immensely economically utile to subsidize student loans.
Student loans create crushing debt.
There is more student loan debt in america right now than there is debt for car ownership, for something that is again ubiquitous with our society.
We think think that, and this is statistically shown to be the case, that this student loan debt has led to a dramatic impact on the lives that people, young people are choosing to live today.
They're slower in starting families which is detrimental to building communities, which is detrimental for their ability to build livelihoods and it's because people that have student loan debt can't afford to feed a child.
They can't afford to take care of people outside of themselves.
They're also slower in buying homes which means that they're not getting this good economic investment that is homeownership and instead more and more money is being poured into the dead weight loss that is renting and again this is because you can't afford to make a thirty thousand dollar down payment on a house if you have to pay a thousand dollars every month out of your salary in order to pay back your student loans.
There's also less money for investment and for creating small businesses again, because that money is simply already dedicated to paying student loans.
We think burdening a whole generation with debt squanders that potential for growth economically and personably and personally and that that is a horrible idea that we need to care about the young generation that is now graduating into a world in which they have to deal with those loan payment because they wanted to get a good education, because they wanted to make a good life for themselves but now they can't even do that for ten twenty years outside of college because they're still paying off these loans.
We think a burden this burden is largely there because of economic conditions outside of that individual's control, outside of this generation's control and for these reasons, we should subsidize student loans.