We should abandon democracy.
So, obviously, if we're going to abandon democracy, we need to propose an alternative.
So here's all our here's our our alternative: we want a technocracy that is governed by a number of bodies that run different functions.
So we're not going to have one centralized government.
We think there are a number of bodies that we can instead have that focus on different sectors, sectors like economic growth, sectors like climate change prevention, sectors like civil rights protection, sectors like legal protections, and we think specialists would be appointed by a body with members of with members from the relevant field.
So we think that if, say, you have a bureau for prevention of climate change, you would have a number of people that fill different executive roles and different administrative roles.
Those people would be appointed by a body of larger climate change experts, people that are most well-versed in the industry, and once you're appointed, you would you would serve one term, probably of something like five years.
You couldn't be renominated, you couldn't be reelected, nothing like that is going to happen.
All right.
Two big things that we're going to talk about.
The first is why majoritarianism is just bad, and that is what democracy fundamentally is.
It's governance by the majority.
There's nothing inherently correct about majority approval.
In fact, many, many times throughout history, the majority accepted things that we today find appalling: things like not allowing women to vote, things like holding individual human beings as slaves, things such as things such as the criminalization of of marijuana.
These are things that the majority of people viewed as acceptable that now, we would say the majority doesn't view as acceptable and has more principled reasons for that to be the case.
This often causes the majoritarianism often causes entrenchment of bad societal norms.
So when you have a majority that is given power and is allowed to fulfill that power, they view might as right, and they view it as a self-reinforcing system.
Slavery was allowed to exist for so long because the people that held power were able to reproduce, become successful, and pass those beliefs on to their to their successors, and they were able to create systems that entrenched old beliefs.
Majority is incentivized always to maintain power structures in order to benefit the current group that's in power.
It's not even safe from tyranny of the few, though.
Even if you think democracy is good because at least the most people are going to benefited, well there's the opposite side of that spectrum, and you can see recent elections in which money has played a huge role, where turnout has been incredibly low, and where a number of laws have been put in place to disenfranchise voters once again.
Democracy does not ensure majoritarianism and even when it does, it does a really bad job of ensuring actual protections for people.
We think that, secondly, specialization and information is crucial to governing.
Governing today should be data-driven.
We can model economic outcomes of policy, we can model impacts on climate change, we have a better understanding of how our society functions in a data-driven, technologically advanced way.
Technocrats are far better positioned to analyze the data that's relevant to their field and evaluate the best outcomes.
Even if you think that the people that are currently elected actually hold the interests of their constituents, they're just not informed enough in the relevant fields to make important decisions on things like climate change or economic policy.
If I'm a career politician that's never had any sort of formal training in economics, except maybe a course or two in college, there's no reason that I'm qualified to make decisions about taxation and economic economic decisions.
And furthermore, if you're a technoocrat, you're not tied to money in the same way as democratic legislators are.
We think a lack of repleted elections finally in terms means that you're less likely to make short-termist decisions.
If you're only holding one term, you're going to make the decision that you think is going to lead to the best outcomes rather than making decisions that might have the best short-term outcomes just to win voters over, while sacrificing long-term gains.
We think that this technocracy is far more likely to breed good governance and for these reasons, we should abandon democracy.