We should not limit the internet of things.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why the internet of things should continue to exist.
The first argument is that connectivity breeds convenience.
And what we mean by this is that when all of your devices are connected, when your computer is connected to your television, it's connected to your refrigerator, it's connected to your lighting appliances, when there's more connectivity between objects, it simply breeds a large amount of convenience.
And convenience is a very positive outcome, given that we think there are very limited harms to the internet of things.
People will talk about security but we'll bring that up in a second, why we don't think that's a problem, but given that there are very limited harms to the internet of things, we think that that convenience is an incredibly useful tool.
Say you leave your house one day and the lights are on, I can tap a button on my phone and turn off all the lights on my house instead of driving back from work in order to take an hour out of my day to turn the lights off.
I can have an understanding of how much electricity usage I'm using at any given time, and I can adjust that accordingly.
It allows me to have an easier way of living my life.
It allows me to spend my time doing things that I am more interested in, that I care more deeply about than just having the normal functions of running a household or of doing things that my devices are smart enough to do on their own.
But secondly, we think that more data leads to better decision-making, and that's kind of part of what we are getting at when I said that, well, I have an better idea of my electricity usage.
When you have an internet of things, when all of your devices, everything that you're using is, in some way, collecting data about your usage of it, you can get a better understanding of not only your own behavior, but how you can adjust that behavior to make better decisions.
For example, if you're finding if you're like using a smart refrigerator that allows you to track the food that you're putting in and out of the fridge, it allows you to tally up what your groceries are, how much you're eating in a given day, it allows the fridge to essentially feed data back to you that you can then use to make better diet decisions.
If you're using a large amount of electricity in your house, you would never have known that or at least the degree to which you're doing that without the internet of things, without constantly being aware of the data that it's feeding back in to you, and because of that, you can cut down on your electricity usage.
You can save yourself the some money, and you can save the environment a little bit.
You can do all these things and much more once that data is available to you.
But that data is only being created, is only being meaningfully is being meaningfully generated all the time, but it can only be collected with the internet of things.
Now, finally, people, again, will say security is a problem, but we think that many of these devices are incredibly secure.
The reason for this is that because there is competition on the market for these devices, they're not there's not just one brand of smart lighting, of smart refrigerators, of smart TVs.
Because of that, there is an incentive for security to be a priority, and they are also being developed by companies that have a large amount of money to put forward toward security.
As the internet becomes a more dominant force in our lives, security is always going to be a risk.
It's always going to be a threat.
But we think that the way to the face that is not to turn away from the technology itself but rather to face the security risks head on, to make smart decisions about how you're going to patrol those security threats, and then to adjust accordingly when a security breach is exposed.
We think that that is the nature of the connected world that we live in, but we think it's worth the tradeoff to have the easier the ease the ease of access to the convenience that these things can provide as well the data that they can provide.
For these reasons, we should not limit the internet of things.