We should limit the exploitation of natural resources.
So when we're saying we're going to limit the exploitation of natural resources, we mean that we're going to set caps on the amount of resource exploitation that could occur.
So for example, if we're talking about timber, we would set a cap on how much timber can yielded from any particular forest and we would ensure that regulations are in place so that this can be done in a sustainable way.
For example using timber again, if you're going to get x amount of if you're going to deforest the the area by taking out x amount of trees, then you need to plant an equal number of saplings in order to allow the forest to rebuild to to regrow.
So we think that there are a few reasons why this is crucial.
Firstly, we think it repairs the environmental degradation that we've already caused.
If you look around the world, the signs of humanity are striking: the amount of waterways that are drying up, the amount of forests that no longer exist, the removal of of grazing land for animals and of and of natural reserves in favor of cities and development.
We have made a mark on our world that is something like an entirely new generation of the earth.
It's an entirely new epoch of existence on earth and it is caused by us and we think it's important to recognize that these chains these changes come at a cost.
When we do things that dry up lakes and we do things that increase our global warming or we do things like overfish, all these have massive ecological changes that ultimately come back to us.
Whether it's things like deforestation leading to less carbon that can be caught up in forest and therefore higher rates of global warming or whether it's overfishing that leads to a lack of biodiversity which allows for new predators to come into the area and ultimately removes us of having those resources in the future.
We think that it's important to behave in a sustainable way when it comes to natural resources, any sort of natural resources, in order to maintain ecological balance.
But the other thing that we think is important to keep in mind is that these natural resources are not infinite.
If you deforest the entire amazon, the amazon is not magically going to grow back and we think it is important to think of future generations when we take these actions.
Future generations that did not choose to come into this world, that were forced into this world by their parents and by the modern generation, future generations that had no say in how we behaved in today's day and age, had no say in how we were going to use those natural resources but are still going to be put into a position where they need those resources too, where they need to strive for themselves.
They need to provide for themselves as a generation and we think if we continue to behave in the ways that we currently are, natural resource reserves are going to be at a minimum when this next generation comes around, when future generations come around which means we are creating a world that is going to be worse and harder and and more costly and potentially with more conflict over natural resources than the world that we live in today and we think that this is dramatically unfair for those future generations and again, they did not choose anything about this situation.
It is our actions that are forcing them into this worse life.
We are inherently causing harm to these people that will exist whether they want to or not and when we think of it in that sense, we think it is crucial that we behave in a sustainable way so that our grandchildren do not not do not have to fight over resources.
They do not have a lack of resources that we created.
For these reasons, we should limit the exploitation of natural resources.