We should not introduce recall elections.
The government side presents to you two main arguments in favor of recall elections, but we think they're both shortsighted and overconfident in the degree of their impact.
So let's walk through those.
The first argument and the largest argument they make is about accountability, saying that people that are elected to office often do bad things, they don't keep their promises, etcetera.
A couple of responses to this: first, in instances when there is true abuse of office, whether it's taking bribes, whether it's using your political office to threaten others, whatever it may be, in cases of true abuse, there are already laws in place that protect against this and will remove someone from office if they do those types of things.
But they say that there's just no accountability, but recognize that not only is there an election for the office that person is serving, such as the governorship, every few years, but there's also elections that impact that governor's party that they are concerned with.
So it's not just like they say that in if you elect a governor in wisconsin that, for six years, you're just stuck with that person and there's no accountability.
You can vote his party out of office if you don't like what he's doing and, in fact, that's what we see in US mid-terms fairly frequently in instances where there aren't recall elections.
And so we don't think that it's the case that there's no accountability whatsoever during or in-between election cycles, but rather that politicians constantly need to maneuver in order to keep their party being viewed favorably.
They say under this that fewer bad people will run, but in addition to the argument that I already made about laws that exist to prevent abuse, being a political being in political office is already insanely profitable, even if you aren't abusing your office.
There's many people that get into it for selfish reasons because they know when they're in political office, they can make connections and they can get cushy job somewhere else doing something like advising some sort of corporation, or lobbying, or things like this, and this is what most politicians do after they leave office.
So we don't think that this actually detracts people from running.
They say that we'll get more honest policy proposals, but we think there's two problems with this.
The first is that this is often not an issue of honesty when people are making promises that they can't keep, but rather it's inexperience in the office they're going to take, and therefore we think that people are still going to make big promises, especially because that's what they need to do in order to seem more favorable than their opponent.
But the other issue and we think the biggest issue with recall elections is that oftentimes large policy proposals, big things, take a long time to pass.
There's lots of bureaucracy you need to go through.
There's political maneuvering that occurs.
Take obamacare, for instance.
Obamacare took almost two years to get passed, even though it was a big proposal that he presented.
If recall elections existed and people were held to short time spans and weren't able to serve out their term, this means that people make more hasty policy in order to fulfill their promises, which we think ultimately leads to worse policy.
The last argument they make is about democratic engagement and that there, again, they say there's no real way to impact the government between elections, and people'll be more engaged.
Firstly, this is empirically not true.
Political engagement in wisconsin, the example that the government team gets, is not higher than it is anywhere else in the united states.
It's not that more people turn out.
This is not the tipping point for what people have for when people have trust in their government or don't.
But additionally, lobbying, protesting, grassroots organizing, organizing in small local elections to change the political tide, all of these things are major things that someone can do between elections that, frankly, will have a larger impact than a recall election proposal that oftentimes won't even get off the ground.
For these reasons, we should not introduce recall elections.