We should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
So, much of the government debate in this round has been focused on why it is ethically acceptable to harvest stem cells and quite frankly, we're not all that concerned with the ethics of the matter.
Certainly there are many that would argue that life begins at conception and that, therefore, harvesting stem cells from embryos that are conceived in some way is unethical, because you're killing potential human beings and all those types of arguments.
But, frankly, we don't think that that is the most important argument in the round, nor are we particularly persuaded by that line of thinking.
Rather, when we're talking about a subsidy, we think that this argument is about whether or not the US government should give public tax money to stem cell research, to people that are doing this research.
We think that is the area in which we in which we have an issue and is an area that the government simply does not explain.
Three reasons why we think that this is a bad use of a subsidy.
The first reason is that the places, the research facilities that are going to get these subsidies will ultimately get massive economic benefits if their research accrues some sort of gain.
If you are the one that is able to discover and patent a form of cancer treatment that otherwise wouldn't have been possible without stem cells, you're going to make a huge amount of profit which means we're essentially, as the government, funding private profit rather than using public resources of the tax money to actually help the public.
And that's why we haven't that's our second issue with this subsidy: is that it is largely inaccessible.
If you're going to take tax money from individuals, money that, remember, you can't opt out of giving to the government.
Taxes are essentially a forced withdrawal from your own personal wealth.
And so if you're going to basically steal money from people, we think that that money should be going to some sort of a public use.
And, yes, while stem cells may in the future have some sort of public benefit, depending on this this sort of uncertainty means that there are other alternatives that are better.
You can use this money for education.
You can use this money for infrastructure, for defense.
There are lots of things that we know will be helpful to people in in the country that that outweigh that the money can go to that outweigh the need to give this to stem cells.
And finally, despite the fact that we personally have no ethical issue with stem cells, many people do.
And in a democratic state like the european nations and the united states, which the government is talking about in this round, we think the fact that this is highly unpopular and highly controversial means that the state shouldn't act in subsidizing it.
This doesn't mean that the state needs to outright ban stem cell research.
We don't think that the state should ban stem cell research, but rather it means that, again, if you're going to be using public money, to to if you're going to be using public money, not only is an issue that you need to be doing something that has the public good, but it needs to come from the consent of those that are being governed.
And we don't think that if you actually were able to get the consent of the people, that if you are actually to poll the people in general, that they would want their money, their subsidy money spent in this way.
The second argument that they make is that stem cell research should happen in regulated areas.
We think that this is a false dichotomy that they draw.
Whether or not the united states does stem cell research doesn't stop other countries that have less more lax regulations on ethical treatment of patients from performing stem cell research, so the harm is going to accrue in either world.
But this debate is about whether or not government money, public money should be spent on subsidizing private actors to do research that will ultimately benefit them with lots of money, lots of profit in the end, which we think is simply unjust and unwarranted.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.