Hunting should not be banned.
In this round, we're gonna make two broad arguments for why hunting should not be banned.
The first is about animal rights and why we don't think that animal rights exist, and if they do, why they don't exist in a very strong manner that would prevent hunting, and the second is about why regulation is a better balance of animal rights if they exist and human rights than banning hunting outright serves.
Okay, so, first on animal rights.
We would say that rights are essentially a social construct.
They are something that is created by the coming together of human beings informing the society and choosing what morals and what laws we want to view as the most important, the most stringent, those that should never be violated.
That is how rights come into existence.
If rights do exist in some sort of ethereal supernatural kind of sense in which they arise from our mere existence, we would say that we can never identify those types of rights.
We can never identify those ethereal rights and therefore, they they aren't meaningful in any way.
The social construct rights, these are the only ones that actually matter.
Animals are not a part of that social construct.
They just are not a part of the societies that we build with each other.
They're not a part of the markets that we interact in.
They're not a part of the social services that we take part in.
All of these things are distinct from what animals are part of.
And if we give animals rights in any cases, we would say that we only give them rights because it makes us feel good.
This is why we say give pets we give pets rights, why we give cats and dogs rights and we don't give pigs and horses rights, even though they're of similar levels of sentience, because we have some sort of emotional attachment to those animals and choose to give them rights.
But in the sense of how we are able to respect rights, how we're able to internalize rights, we would say that animals don't have any of those capabilities whatsoever.
Firstly, they can't internalize those rights.
In order to be able to internalize your rights, you need to be able to understand that they are something that are being applied to you, and plan around them.
Animals can never be cognizant of the fact that they have these rights if you were to give them to them and therefore, they can never gain the type of value that we can from those rights.
So giving them to animals doesn't really matter.
The other thing that's important is that they can't reciprocate these rights claims.
The way that we ascribe rights onto people in the status quo is through a series of reciprocation.
I give I value the rights of other people because I know that in valuing their rights, I am more likely to have my rights valued.
And that is how we uphold a system of rights in the status quo for the vast majority of rights that we take for granted.
Animals cannot do this.
If I were to give a right rights to a wild animal and they were to attack me, they wouldn't know that they are violating the reciprocal obligation that we have to each other not to harm each other, and this is white hunting is not hunting is not a violation of the rights that other animals have, because they would do the same to us if they were given the opportunity.
Finally, why regulation is better.
Given that animals do not have these stringent rights, we would say that many people simply enjoy being able to hunt.
They enjoy being able to take part in a pastime that their ancestors did, to be able to bring food home and put it on the table for their family, to be able to go out into the wilderness and express themselves through that way.
We think that you can do things like limit hunting of endangered species or limit hunting in in certain seasons to ensure that ecosystems are still able to thrive without banning hunting altogether.
And by doing this, by putting forward these sensible laws like banning the hunting of endangered or nearly extinct animals, we think you can keep ecosystems alive.
We think you can ensure that people do not wipe animals off the face of the earth entirely, and you can allow people to express their preferences in a free and just state.
For these reasons, hunting should not be banned.