We should not introduce school vouchers.
Recognize that, in the vast majority of instances, school vouchers are programs that are set up to ensure that students are able to go specifically to private schools.
We think that school vouchers, in the overwhelming amounts of instances, go to allowing children to go private schools, it's not reinvested into public school.
So we think that this debate ultimately turns into a trade off, about whether or not, the increased amount of school choice is worth the harms that come to public schools.
We simply don't think that it is the case.
So firstly, why do we think that public schools are harmed so dramatically from school vouchers?
And secondly, why do we think that private schools are not a preferable alternative, and that choice is not a preferable thing to for?
Okay so firstly, on public schools: recognize that, in the status quo, public schools are already massively underfunded, teachers get public school teachers get paid a minuscule amount of money, it's very difficult to attract teachers into those positions, and it's very difficult to get teachers to stay in those positions, the technology that is required to actually teach students, in a modern and growing economic system, simply doesn't exist in the vast majority of schools.
What's important to recognize is that, the revenue that, otherwise could go into these schools in the status quo, or that does go into schools in the status quo, is where voucher money comes from, so you're only stripping these public schools even more resources, when they're already limit limited too in the status quo, which means it's very likely that these schools are only going to get worse in the future, they're going to have less funds to teach technologies, and to have extracurriculars, and to invest in teachers and students, and we think that's problematic.
Especially because, vouchers very rarely are able to cover the full cost of private education, which means that for the poorest students in these schools, in these public schools, they're simply not going to be able to take advantage of these voucher programs, it's much more likely the case that the more wealthier affluent students, that go to public schools, even those that aren't very affluent, are going to be the ones that are able to afford to transfer into other school districts, to afford to go to school in these private schools with these vouchers, which means you only trap the poorest and most disadvantaged students in schools, that have crumbling infrastructure and are having money stripped of them, with this new program, to funnel resources more directly into the hands of more affluent individuals.
We think that this is obviously a horrible detriment to the public education system, and simply leaves behind too many individuals to make it worthwhile.
Especially given that, we would say that private schools simply are not this great alternate.
Firstly, they've much lower levels of oversight, and we think that if you were to institute a voucher program, a lot of private schools are likely to pop up that take advantage of this this voucher expansion, this opportunity at the detriment of student education.
So, we think you're likely to get bad schools rising up, and in the status quo, there are already a number of schools that don't have the oversight to ensure that money is going to a proper education.
Private schools are also overwhelmingly religious in the status quo, which means you're funneling money into religious organizations, at the expense of impoverished students that, otherwise, are stuck in public school.
And the third reason is that, that even when you even when you account for like levels of funding between these schools, private school still don't significantly, or even that dramatically, outperform public school students as far as educational metrics in standardized test test metrics.
Given that this is the case, we think it's an overwhelming investment into a system that is under supervised, under successful, and to the massive detriment of the worst off in our society, children that are being left behind through no fault of their own.
For those reasons, we should not introduce school vouchers.