We should not end water fluoridation.
So, before we get into the government side's arguments in this debate, we just want to make two overarching arguments that we think are important to recognize when it comes to this general public debate about water fluoridation.
So, the first thing that we want to make clear is that fluoride is at least somewhat good for you.
We won't argue that fluoride and water fluoridation has been studied to such a degree that we know with absolute certainty what the exact benefits are, but we do know that through long-term exposure to fluoride and long history of water fluoridation that it has generally positive health benefits and that fluoride in other uses is also generally good for the human body.
And so we think that at the at the very most, even if there are some side effects that could be shown through larger research, we think fluoride is definitely not a net bad.
But what's more important about what about this debate than fluoride is really about whether or not the government should be making decisions based on misinformation.
Because the only people in public records, the only people in the public discourse that actually care about this issue are not people that are concerned about saving a little bit of money and think that this is a waste of money or anything like that, because this isn't a particularly huge government cost, the only people that care about this are those that have this misinformed belief that fluoride is actively bad for you, that consuming fluoride is somehow going to turn to you getting all these number of diseases, or genetic disorders, or anything like that, and it's similar to the anti-vax movement that we've seen spring up in public discourse in the last couple of decades.
And we think that, principally, misinformation shouldn't dictate government action, especially because we think that people are only capable of making decisions if they are properly informed.
We prevent people from making poor decisions, the government prevents people from taking certain actions all the time because of an asymmetry of information.
And we think that this is one of those times where instead of the government preventing people from taking government action taking private action, the government is just not allowing people to dictate their own actions, the government's own actions because of misinformation, which we think is principally the same and is a principle that we will stand by.
So that being said, let's respond to the government arguments in this round.
So, first, they say that people can get fluoride from many other ways.
We just don't think that this is a positive reason against water fluoridation, but let's get into the meat of their arguments.
The first is that we should be risk-averse.
They say that fluoride fluoride fluoridation in the water is underresearched and potentially dangerous.
So, first, as we said earlier, fluoride itself has been well has been well-researched, and we think that it's not it's given that the long-term period that water fluoridation has been effect, we think that it's very unlikely that large-scale problems are going to pop up that make this major problem.
But more importantly, we do think that there is an opt-out for fluoride.
You can still do something like drink bottled water.
There are many private taps that you can drink from.
You think you can and this opt-out is, again, only based on this asymmetry of information.
So given that all of those things are the case, we just don't think that risk aversion is something that we need to be concerned with in this debate.
The final thing that the government side says is cost and that the government spends money that, you know, creates a tradeoff with other things.
But they just assert that this cost is high.
It's not really a significant cost to add a little bit of fluoride into a collective water supply, and we think there's no real meaningful tradeoff.
This is a classic instance in which people are misinformed and they're trying to change government policy, and we think that, on principle, the government should not react to that misinformation.
For these reasons, we should not end water fluoridation.