We should cancel pride parades.
In this round we're going to make three broad arguments about why we should cancel pride parades, but first what do we think this actually entails.
We don't think that this necessarily means that the government is going to ban pride parades, we think that this is more of a two worlds debate in which it would be preferable if pride parades did not happen, if they were cancelled.
With that in mind, three arguements.
First, pride parades are largely a target for violence against LGBTQ people.
What we mean by this is that in the status quo pride parades are a large event that is open to the public open to really anyone that wants to be there that fosters a community that is in the status quo largely marginalized and remember this isn't just something that occurs in liberals in liberal cities in developed countries but pride parades occur all over the developed and developing world and in many areas there are incredibly conservative individuals that simply view being an LGBT person as being an immoral person, as being a fundamentally sinful person and with that we think there are many instances and that this empirically does happen where pride parades become a target for violence and this happens in the developed world as well look at the violence that occurred in orlando a few years back following pride month and following pride parades in which many people were killed and injured in a shooting.
We think that these are things that cannot be allowed to occur and that yes while the expression of pride in oneself is something that is good there are other ways to celebrate this without having these large public events that ultimately put members of this LGBTQ LGBTQ group in extreme danger in many cases.
Secondly we think that these pride parades ultimately end up being shameful for those that are fearful to out themselves.
We think that outing yourself as gay is something that is an incredibly personal decision to make, that there are many contextual reasons why you as an individual may feel unsafe or insecure in expressing that part of your identity to those around you.
We think that pride parades are largely meant to include people that are out of the closet, people that are open about their sexual orientation, and we think that pride parades while they may be intended to be a celebration of all people that are in this LGBT group we think that in many cases for those that aren't out this feels like an expression of something that is wrong with them that it's bad that they aren't proud of who they are that they aren't open and out about who they are and that we think this puts one pressure on people to come out in instances when they really are not safe doing though aren't safe doing so and they probably should not for their own well being and two puts an immense amount of stress and and deeply upsets people that aren't going to come out because it makes them feel like they're fake in some way and they don't belong in this community.
We think that this community is preferable if it is open to all people that are amongst the marginalized group and so pride parades simply do not help that.
Finally we think these parades define find queer as a singular idea when pride parades actually occur the representation of gay and lesbian people generally come in a few types of stereotype.
There's the overtly sexual and hyper sexual a masculine man that comes out there are people that there are a number of a number of stereotypes that are portrayed in these pride parades and while largely it's people that are just being themselves, we think that it ultimately portrays in the media attention defines gay as defines queer as one or two types of people.
We don't think that people should be defined by their sexuality at all we think that all types of people can be gay, can be straight.
All types of people can fit the mold of being an LGBTQ person and that pride parades when they promote this one type of what it means to be queer, we think it makes other people question their sexuality, it makes other people feel excluded from this community, and it doesn't make it a more open and involved place.
Pride month and the idea of being proud of being a gay person is absolutely acceptable but the expression of it through pride parades is something that is unsafe and ultimately marginalized as many people within this community.
For these reasons we should cancel pride parades.