We should not raise the corporate tax.
In this round we're gonna respond to the arguments that the government side has made regarding why we should raise the corporate tax, but first we want to lay out a few principles as to why do you think reason the corporate tax would be harmful.
Because it's really trendy to say: " oh just tax corporations.
Corporations are just these monolithic things that don't get harmed by taxation, there's no real impacts of it. "
But we think there are serious impacts of high rates of corporate taxation.
The first is a risk of capital flight, which means you get less investment in businesses and in industries in the domestic country.
There's a risk of layoffs, so if you have high rates of corporate taxation they may try and weigh out those taxes by laying off employees, which harms people that are the least well off, who are the people that presumably you're trying to help with these corporate taxes.
And finally you can get decreased productivity when you have a company that is when the margins for a company are shifted such that it makes more money for them to be less productive because they're not in a higher a higher tax bracket.
Now, going through the arguments of the government side makes: the first or the first thing they point out is that the status quo many corporations like apple are based in low tax countries like ireland and they offer a few proposals: the first proposal they make is to have a corporate tax on income in the country.
So if apple sells an iphone in america, have a tax on that iphone in america.
Well first this already does exist in many places because there are sales taxes, but if you're going to have this increased tax on apple, if you're going to have a domestic tax on all income made in the country, this just means that it raises the cost of goods and harms consumers.
If I'm apple I'm just going to offset that tax by making the iphone, which already has great margins by the way, I'm just going to make it more expensive so that I'm still getting the same amount of profit after taxes that I would've been getting otherwise.
Which means you're not really doing anything to harm apple, you're not doing anything aside from shipping the costs of that tax on to the consumer, who is again the people that the government side is trying to help.
They say tax that you should tax infrastructure and forms a permanent spending.
In the case of apple like the apple stores.
Have taxes on those.
And again this is where you get things like layoffs.
Because if apple is gonna have high rates of taxation on their apple stores they'll just shift more of their business to online sales and lay off people that work in the physical stores.
Again, this is something that harms the that doesn't harm apple's bottom line.
Because they are focused on maintaining their profits and maintaining their margins but it hurts the people that are the least well off in the least influential at apple.
Which is why we would propose that instead of having a corporate tax you should just have a higher tax rates on the wealthiest individuals.
So that when tim cook, the CEO of apple, gets his bonus at the end of the year because of the great profits that apple is making, you can just tax him directly which doesn't pass the cost on to consumers because it doesn't have an impact on the bottom line for the corporation.
So a few other of the arguments that that the government side makes: they said companies have a duty to the state because it does business there.
Again, this is just why there should be some sort of tax on corporations, which they do acknowledge that this is just a justification for some tax and they say it should be high because the burden of taxation should fall on corporations and that corporations should be are treated as legal people and therefore they should have the burden that legal people face.
When legal people are paying upwards of forty percent of taxes and corporations are paying somewhere in the range of fifteen percent.
But corporations are productive and contribute to society in the forms of jobs and production of goods and labor and services in a way that individuals aren't and and that is why the tax is offset in those regards.
This is why we tax individuals.
They say corporations are most able to pay.
Again, this is why you should tax CEO's not why you should raise corporate taxes.
At the end of the day raising corporate taxes only increases the cost of goods, leads to layoffs and leads to lower productivity.
And for these reasons we should not raise the corporate tax.