The free market should be protected.
So in this debate we're not going to talk about the specific regulations about how the free market's going to be protected.
We're just going to say that generally, a just state should provide a free market and a very open market that allows people to behave in a capitalist system.
We're going to have robust regulations that protect that market, etcetera.
So firstly, we would say that a free state should, based on its own principles, have a free market.
So what does this mean?
A just state is one that maximizes the freedom of its citizens.
The reason for this is that it's actually impossible to get the consent of one's citizens, or at least the totality of your citizens to consent, and the reason that people would consent to the state is because without one there's no protection of freedom or any sort of protection for autonomy and so those things, we think, must be maximized by a just state in order for that state to be just.
If a state creates laws trying to maximize any other thing then people would not have consented to that state, or many people would not have consented to that state making it an unjust state.
We think a just state naturally, based on those ideas of freedom and autonomy, would give rise to a free market.
You need some sort of economic system in any state that's going to exist and a free market allows for people to freely enter into contracts into one with one another maximizing their autonomy in that way, choose the occupation that they want to pursue, which is the free choice of how they want to spend a large amount of the time in their day, spend money on goods and services that they see fit without the government deciding for them what they need to purchase or what's best for them, and create businesses around the product and around the product and model individual desires within one's own businesses which we think gives you maximal freedom interacting in the economic sphere.
We think that being able to express freedom within the marketplace is huge.
The economic realm is one in which people spend a huge portion of their lives and accrue goods for their own well being.
We think a just state must uphold free market structures in order to allow the maximal amount of freedom and autonomy within this huge sphere of life.
Secondly we'd say that you get the best allocation of resources under a free market model.
A few reasons for this: free markets naturally allocate jobs and resources in the most fair way.
So let's talk about labor allocation: we think that firstly, when you have a free market labor is likely to migrate in order to fill available positions.
This mobility ensures that you've an efficient allocation of labor throughout the entire labor force.
This is why more people congregate around cities because those jobs, the best jobs and the most amount of jobs are in those cities.
We think that jobs compete with one another to offer competitive wages that people are willing to work for when you have a free market that allows businesses to rise up and compete with one another.
Conversely, labor can lead to with one another to acquire skills that make them valuable in the job market.
Every person that's an individual laborer is competing with everyone else to try and get the best job available and the way you do this is by accruing the most skill.
The result of this is the most efficient worker job pairing which yields the highest output in productivity that is possible from any individual labor source.
Finally, about prices of goods and services.
We think that prices in a free market will only go as high as the market can bear.
Meaning, if people are unwilling to pay a price for a good it's simply not going to sell and prices will have to go down.
We think that excessive luxury goods are unlikely because of low demand and a high demand for essentials means that many businesses open to fill a hole in the market if those essentials are not being provided and to produce those goods.
Finally we think that innovation is massively encouraged because innovation doesn't only provide you with a new opportunity for revenue, it opens an entirely new market that wasn't there before.
Something that allows you to corner a market early on and gain immense amounts of revenue compared to trying to enter an existing market.
All these things allocate resources in a way that's not only efficient but also does so in a way that maximizes autonomy and freedom of all actors involved.
For these reasons the free market should be protected.