We should adopt the metric system.
Nearly every country in the world uses the metric system, yet the united states continues to work off an imperial system that doesn't make too much logical sense and doesn't doesn't provide any sort of useful benefit in comparison to the metric system.
Three main arguments about why we should adopt the metric system: the first is that standardization prevents conversion errors and conversion errors, while they sound dull, prevent create massive problems in many instances.
A few examples of when this has occurred has been converting in units between the metric system to the imperial system in the creation of different nasa probes and different nasa launch vehicles, and these are costs that and these are types of projects that with very small conversion differences, or sometimes quite large conversion differences, can create massive problems like, for example, a new nasa spacecraft exploding multiple times because of this error.
This hasn't just happened to nasa once, this has happened to nasa on two notable occasions that cost hundreds of millions of dollars.
Additionally, it's not just government actors like nasa that may that have confusion like this.
Air canada once had a plane run out of fuel because it had a conversion issue from imperial to a metric system, and this caused the plane to land in a field.
Obviously, it was not a very good instance for air canada.
But additionally, you can also have medical disasters arise, because most people work in the most people in the world work off the metric system.
If you're a doctor in the united states and you're seeing medical information from anywhere outside of the united states, you might be confused by the by the units of conversion or by the units that you're seeing and make a blunder, like prescribing someone fifty times more medication, because you didn't know what the GR stood for in the unit that you were looking at which, yes, has happened.
All of these things can range from kind of funny to massively expensive to deadly, and we think that it's clear that there's no sort of benefit to the system the imperial system that metric doesn't provide.
When the whole world is working off the metric system, we think the united states should respond.
Metric is also just a more logical system.
It's a more intuitive system for people to understand.
We count in base ten, we work our lives in, for the most part, base ten, but imperial works in a very strange way off of base twelve and, at other times, base four.
It's a very confusing system that isn't intuitive.
It's not easy to pick up.
And so, while it might be easy for someone to convert from, say, imperial to metric, it's very difficult to do the other way around because there's no sort of intuitive way to change.
And that brings us to transition costs, because all the arguments against the metric system come to transition costs.
It's people saying that, " oh, if the united states were to change, people wouldn't understand for some time.
They would have to learn this new system, " and, yes, that's the case.
People would need to learn this new system.
But if you start to use the metric system in your day-to-day life or even if we start at a very young age teaching children how to use the metric system, then we think you'd tend to catch on pretty quickly.
And once it surrounds you, once it's the world you live in, once instead of miles, you're using kilometers, instead of fahrenheit, you're using celsius, instead of pounds, you're using grams or kilos, the world will start to make a lot more sense, and you'll pick up on it quickly because it works in base ten, because it's intuitive.
So, we don't think the transition costs are nearly as high or long as some say, and there are there are a myriad of reasons why the imperial system fails.
For these reasons, we should adopt the metric system.