We should fight urbanization.
In the status quo, urbanization is becoming increasingly popular, increasingly rapid in the developed world and especially in the developing world.
The world blank the world bank and the united nations project that more and more people are going to move into urban areas, but we think that with this urbanization comes immense problems that ultimately outweigh any sort of benefits that come from more people being an urban area.
So we're just going to lay those out and explain why we think urbanization is more problematic than good.
Alright, firstly, we would say that urbanization creates clusters of prosperity while deluding opportunities for everyone else.
What we mean by this is when you have highly urbanized area these are areas in which businesses are much more likely to spring up and which existing businesses are much more likely to move their labor centers and to move their business centers and this is because it's much easier to get labor in these areas, it's because there's just a huge amount of people and you're more likely to get skilled laborers as well as just masses of people that are in need of work.
What this means is that in urban areas themselves, it drives down wages because there's an increased amount of people that could potentially fill any given job and it means that outside of these urban areas, there are fewer jobs available to those that are incapable of moving or do not simply do not want to move into urban areas which we think is legitimate choice that those people should be able to make.
So we think you both decrease the prosperity of those in and outside of urban areas.
Additionally, we think that these urban areas are just a horrible ar-ar are horrible for human health and we think this is for a few reasons.
Firstly, urbanization has led to immense amounts of smog especially in the developing world which has long term health implications for the people for the citizens of these urban areas.
For example, you can look at major industrial cities in china and see how people literally cannot walk outside without putting on a mask to protect themselves from breathing in this harmful smog.
It also is the case that when you have so many people packed packed so densely into an urban area it makes it much more likely that communicable diseases will be transmitted throughout the population in this is a way in which contaminations and outbreaks can occur and we think with increased rates of urbanization, you're much more likely to get increase rates of potentially fatal outbreaks in these areas that could spread very rapidly, not just within the country, but globally and we think that in a comparison, if you had a lesser urbanized world there are fewer people that are likely to come into contact with these diseases and we think that that is preferable especially given the high rates of the high rates of disease in these areas.
Regardless of the communicable nature of these diseases.
We also say that that when you have high rates of urbanization there are massive increases in housing costs, and what we think the sense of resulting in is that people that people and communities that have existed in these urban areas end up being priced out of their own neighborhoods and this is how gentrification works and is particularly prominent in areas such as urban new york, in places like brooklyn areas in which prior to the last decade these were largely poor areas which rents were relatively low but now that people are moving into these areas in mass, housing costs are obviously going way up because of a lack of infrastructure to house these people and communities become dismantled and destroyed by these rates of urbanization.
So even if there are increased even if there is increased job opportunities in these areas in the long run, the people that have been in these areas that have been located in these areas get priced out to the point where they can't partake in this prosperity which means that with already high rates of income inequality, those that are the worst off those that are the worst off especially in these urban areas end up becoming even more worse off in the long run.
We think that urbanization leads to increased rates of health risks, increased rates of pollution, lower prosperity in general, and particularly harms or particularly bad and problematic harms for those that are the most vulnerable and the worst off in urban areas already.
And for these reasons, we should fight urbanization.