We should prohibit slum tourism.
We believe that slum tourism is degrading to human beings and that it creates a false sense of solvency amongst those that tour these slums.
People go to the areas and believe that for some reason, because they've gone, because they spend some money there, because there's now this industry of tourism in the area, and because they become aware of these issues, that suddenly there is some sort of solvency involved in these issues.
Because they're able to escape those issues and move on and go back to their lives as they were beforehand while people live in squalor.
So that we're going to talk about in this round.
So firstly on why these this is degrading to human beings.
Slum tourism, in its very nature, treats human beings and their struggle as entertainment rather than as people that are actually suffering the degradation that slum living causes them to endure.
We think that people shouldn't view these other individuals, these other people whose lives have the same inherent amount of value as their own, despite their inequality in class level, we think that these people shouldn't be forced to be used as some sort of social experiment, as some sort of freak show in the way that they live their lives.
We would also say that this doesn't actually build empathy between those people that are touring and those people that live in these areas because they're not interacting with these people and a genuine setting.
They're not going into these people's lives and really coming to understand the struggle they live, but also seeing them as human beings outside of their struggles, outside of their poverty.
They don't do this at a long term manner.
There's no way to see growth in these people, to see changes in these people, to understand them as human beings as we would understand our friends as human beings, because we've been able to grow with them and see them change.
And they only see them as poverty.
As the human encapsulation of poverty.
Another way in which these people are are degraded because of this form of tourism.
And finally, people in these slums don't actually get any real money from from this tourism.
Yes, some wealthy people will be able to spend some money in these areas, and some small markets or some small store owners or these types of people may be able to make some amount of money, but as far as the vast majority of the people in these slums, they're not getting the money from this tourism industry, they're not getting this money from the tourist industries that run these tours, they're not getting money from the airports and from the air and from the the flights that these people take to go into these areas.
Most of the money goes to areas in which people are already wealthy.
So, it's using people that are in poverty to make those that are rich, richer.
We think that that is incredibly degrading to the struggle that these people go through and is a moral bad that we should not allow.
Finally, on a false sense of solvency.
As I explained, people believe that they become familiar with the issue and because of that they give maybe a little bit of money, but then they think they've done their part.
They think that they've gone through some sort of process that not only transformed them because of how they are now enlightened about the struggle of other people in the world, but also helped those people who's struggle they have become aware of.
But they don't take any real steps once they have this feeling the fulfillment.
Their likes and what this means is that they're less likely to take tangible steps in the future.
In a comparison between people that feel they have the sense of accomplishment and people that may not be aware of the struggle but don't feel the sense of accomplishment, we think people that are unaware are more likely to become aware through a better mechanism, through a way that doesn't give them this false sense of solvency, and then make serious changes than those who are already aware, have this false sense of solvency, are to actually change the situation.
For these reasons, we should prohibit slum tourism.