We should not increase drug testing.
In this round, we're gonna primarily focus on non-sport drug testing.
This is just because in the realm of sports, these are largely realms that are governed by specific governing bodies.
It varies dramatically from organization to organization how these things are policed, but just a quick note: we would say that some of the most popular times in sport have been times that were dominated by drug use.
Take major league baseball, for example.
Ratings in major league baseball were at their peak during the steroid era and started to decline once the power and the emphasis and the improvement of athletes went down.
But that being said, let's focus on the other realms in this debate.
First, we would say that drug laws are unjust.
We would say that the state is essentially a coercive body that has the power to wield immense influence over people's lives.
It's essentially, in most respects, a cartel or a large bully that has the ability to dictate what people are and are not allowed to do, and this seems unjust from a fundamental perspective.
People are unable to fully consent to the state because they are either born into the state or they're forced to live in the state by circumstances outside their control.
They're not able to consent, certainly, to all of the laws that govern them.
And without consent, we would say that the state is fundamentally unjust.
So we think the state needs to come up with some sort of guiding force and guiding principle that dictates what the laws it's going to create are going to be focused focused around.
We would say that people would choose to consent if a mechanism for consent were possible, if they were consenting into a state in which freedom and the maximization of freedom was what the state existed in order to serve.
And given this perspective, we think that all laws that the state is passing should, in a way, try to maximize individual freedom, and this doesn't mean freedom in a very broad sense.
This doesn't mean that we can limit what people do in certain respects because we think, in a nebulous way, it will maximize overall freedom.
No.
We mean that the state should not pass laws that dictate what someone can do to themselves, which is essentially what drug laws do.
You can certainly have laws that are against that are against driving while intoxicated or doing other crimes while intoxicated, but drug testing doesn't test for those things.
Drug testing tests for whether or not someone has used drugs in the past, and it enforces unjust laws that ban people from doing what they see fit with their own bodies.
We do not think that we should further this harm by increasing drug testing.
We do not think we should further perpetuate the system by increasing drug testing, as the other side would have you do.
But even if you believe that drugs are bad, we think that drug testing makes these problems exponentially worse.
If you believe drugs are bad, drug testing only marginalizes people further, in a number of ways.
Firstly, it oftentimes excludes them from holding jobs and earning capital.
If you increase drug testing in the workforce, this means that it's less likely that people who use drugs are going to be able to go and find a job.
They're going to be less able to enter into legitimate means of business and legitimate means of supporting themselves, which means you trap them in cycles of poverty and you make it more likely that they elevate to higher crime or worst drug usage in order to compensate for this.
So you only make the problem worse.
It can also exclude them from different academic pursuits if people are kicked out of schools because of their drug use.
It can also dissuade them from trying to improve their lives in a number of ways because they know that around the corner, they can always be tested for drugs.
And finally, when it comes to police drug testing, we think that this is always swayed by the racist tendencies that currently exist in our policing system, whether it's the fact that minorities are over-policed or the fact that once they go to court, minorities are vastly more likely to be convicted and then ultimately be on parole.
We think that drug testing and increasing drug testing only increases the amount of harm that are done to these communities through these racialized processes.
For these reasons, we should not increase drug testing.