We should not abolish competition laws.
Competition laws, otherwise known in the united states as antitrust laws, are laws that exist to prevent non-competitive practices from creeping up in the market.
This includes things like breaking up companies that gain too high of a market share in any particular market.
This involves ensuring that employees are able to transfer between jobs freely, and those types of things.
And we think that those laws should be maintained.
So the first argument that the government makes is that the free market is most effective when it's free.
When the free market is allowed to dictate where people are employed, what businesses flourish and fail, and when businesses are allowed to grow, it creates an incentive to be as successful as possible.
It's the most free way for people to associate themselves with one another and to build lives and because of that, antitrust laws or competition laws inhibit the freedom of the market.
But we think that the only benefit of a free market is that it provides growth and general well-being for the whole.
So if it doesn't do that, if a market that has monopolies and other types of large and bad business practices, then we don't think there's any real utility and no real benefit to just having a free market that is open and free.
And we think that the free market is actually most productive when things happen like having competitive wages, when there is an incentive to innovate.
And when you have a monopoly, none of those things exist, because it means that, for example, if you have a monopoly in a certain type of production, anyone that has some sort of specialty or experience in that production is at the whims of your employment, they need to be employed by you.
So you can do things like decrease wages.
And when you have a large enough of a market share, there's no need to innovate, because as long as your product is good enough, people are going to always go to you, and you're always going to be profitable.
But when you have competition in the market, it means that employees or employees ultimately get higher wages, because there're different firms that they can go to and so firms are competing for their labor, but also it means that firms are competing for consumer dollars, which leads them to do things like innovate.
And finally, we think that monopolies lead to an oligopoly within the government, because it means that you have these rich barons that are able to control large portions of the government.
Just look at when the united states started rolling out these antitrust laws, when you had people like the carnegies and the rockefellers that owned whole percentages, by themselves, of the US GDP and could basically run large portions of the political areas that they were in because they were just so wealthy.
We think that is only prevented if you have competition laws.
The second argument that they make, the government makes, is that these laws are just poorly enforced in the status quo.
And if you look at companies like amazon, and apple, and others, there's many companies that should be subject to these laws but are not, and so it doesn't make any sense to still have these laws on the book.
But, firstly, we think large doesn't necessarily mean a monopoly.
So, for example, apple doesn't come even close to having a fifty percent market share of the phone market or the computer market.
So while it's very successful, it's certainly not a monopoly.
But second, we agree that it's poorly enforced in the status quo, which doesn't mean that we should just deconstruct these laws altogether and let the free market run wild, but rather we think that if it's poorly enforced, we need to put firmer laws in place and have enforcement that's more strict.
Antitrust laws were very effective in the early nineteen hundreds in the united states in doing things like breeding business growth and breeding good business practices, and we think that we need to get back to doing those types of things in the status quo.
We already live in a a world in which mega corporations exist.
They cannot be allowed to grow stronger and be more and more powerful.
For these reasons, we should not abolish competition laws.