We should ban private education.
We think that, principally, private education serves as a means by which you can segregate your children out of the public education system and therefore deprive the masses of the resources that come with having more children in the public education system.
We're going to say for our model that we're going to start this in a in a rolled out system.
So what mean by that is we're going to start having it be the case after five years that all private education systems are private, primary education systems are banned, and you cannot allow enrollment after next year.
This gives people enough foresight to plan for the future and it allows all people that were planning on enrolling their children in the start of the next school year to do so and still have them graduate in time, but after that no more private education, at least at the primary level.
Okay, first and foremost we think that private education drains resources from public schools.
Private education is exclusive to mostly wealthy families.
People with the most resources therefore, are no longer invested in the local public school system.
They never have an investment in that system because they don't because their children aren't the ones that have to use the resources there.
They don't have any sort of incentive to improve the system.
What this means is that these people are also, as the wealthier individuals statistically more likely and more capable of being politically active individuals and with that political activity these are people that are then more likely to do things like advocate for cuts in cuts in property taxes, cuts in taxes that are used to fund the public education system.
This comes at the detriment of all children that are in that public school environment.
We think an alternative world can exist in which the whole community is invested in a public school.
Everyone will care because everyone wants that school to succeed for their children, for the good of their neighbors, for their neighbors children, for the people that are with them in the community on a day to day basis.
That means that you're more likely to have more funding for these schools which is often a problem for local public schools when they're trying to do things like have extracurriculars, creates create courses and create day plans that allow children to learn in a modern way by using technology, by learning about the internet, by learning skills that will help them in the future.
These are all things that end up being cut when you have a system and when you have a community that's fractured by the existence of a private school.
It also fosters political will within those families that were previously trying to cut taxes to improve schools.
Which is especially the case in urban areas where there is a massive racial and socio economic divide between public and private school families.
And what's been shown to occur, another benefit of having more wealthy advocates for public education, is that the achievement gap has shown to decrease with integration of schools.
When you ban private schools we think you're more likely to have this forced integration.
These parents can no longer send their kids to public schools outside of that region, again especially important in urban areas.
Finally, we think there's more oversight in public schools generally.
There's a curriculum that can be set by the state, there's oversight by a public school board that's accountable not just to parents in the schools but also to the community writ large and it insures that there's a modicum of public control over the education system.
It means that you can't have a system in which children are not given a quality of education, they're not taught certain things based on the beliefs of that school system, you know those things maybe fundamental to a child's well being the future.
For example, religious schools often prevent children from learning about sex education and that's just one example of how private schools can cluster off information that can really help children in the long run.
Because it's better for the general population, because it's better for students writ large, we should ban private education.