The energy industry should not be nationalized.
In this round, we're going to make two broad arguments about why we think privately owned energy production corporations should should not be nationalized, should not be purchased by the government, and why that shouldn't be run by the government.
The first argument we want to make is just talking broadly about the benefits of private competition.
When you have a nationalized energy industry, it means that you have no type of competition in the market for that product.
And because energy is a good that everyone needs, it's something that is always going to be necessary for human life, the the electricity that powers our homes, the fuel that powers our heating, these types of things that are always going to be necessary, we think that it's preferable to have a system with competition.
And the reason for that is that competition gives some sort of a natural way to lower to lower prices for these goods.
If you have a system with with a monopoly, then you can charge as much as you want for energy, because that monopoly is always going to be profitable, and people are always going to turn to you for that good.
But if you have a variety of different private actors that are are vying to get the business of an area or a municipality or of an individual, then you have a system in which there's an there's an incentive to lower prices in order to get business, to compete with other individuals, compete with other private corporations, and we think that that is a benefit that never comes with a nationalized industry.
And, yes, while a nationalized industry doesn't have a profit incentive, the government still certainly wants to break even, and there's a multitude of problems with a nationalized system, such as the incentive to not have an efficient system, to have more people as many people employed by the system as possible so that government officials can tout that they're creating jobs, that they're giving new opportunities to people in their district.
They're trying to expand and expand the system as much as possible to ensure that everyone can can brag to their constituency about the benefits that they're providing, whereas private private businesses have no such incentive.
They're willing to slash jobs if of necessary.
They're willing to cut out bloat in the system to ensure that you're running efficiently because that efficiency is how you get both quality service and low-cost service, which is what you need to attract individuals.
And that's the other thing: is that when you don't have a monopoly, there is a massive incentive to be consistent with your production.
If you've large periods of shut down, people are just going to go elsewhere for their business.
But if there's a monopoly, you can leave people without power for a day or two and not worry that you're no longer going to turn a profit as the government, as the nationalized industry.
So we think there's a multitude of benefits of private competition that nationalization wipes out.
But finally, we think that it not nationalizing the energy industry reduces the size of the government.
It ensures that the government stays at a modest size, and we think that that is preferable.
The government is not something that people are able to consent to, it's not something that people are able to withdraw their consent from, and it's not something that you can meaningfully opt out of.
And in those respects, we think that the government should be as limited as possible and that the government primarily should exist to facilitate the freedom of other individuals to pursue ends that they see that they see fit, that they want to pursue.
And this includes private businesses, creating private business to compete on an open and free market.
We don't think it's the government's job to ensure that every single need of its of its constituents are met but rather to provide the basis, the outline, the infrastructure, and the foundation to allow for those needs to be met by private individuals acting through their own free will.
For these reasons, the energy industry should not be nationalized.