We should not subsidize adoptions.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments.
The first is that this is a principally bad subsidy, the second is about why adoption and why adoption costs are comparatively lower than people think and thirdly, we think this is going to be a relatively unimpactful subsidy to do and because of that, we don't think it is worth the funds.
So, firstly, why is this a bad subsidy?
You first need to take a high level look at what a subsidy is.
A subsidy is a use of taxpayer money, either through giving money directly to individuals or through providing tax breaks, that makes the burden that other taxpayers have to bear higher.
It's giving this to individuals with the idea that you want to promote some sort of action, you want to lead to an increased action in some way.
When it comes to adoption, this is the increased adoption of people getting people to change their minds from having their own children to adopting children.
And we think that this is a noble pursuit, that adoption is certainly a good end to pursue, but we think the problem with this is that when you have a public use of funds and you're giving a subsidy, we think that you need to have something that is actually going to gain some sort of public good.
It needs to be something that is easily accessible to the vast majority of people.
Otherwise, you're just picking and choosing who's going to get the who's going to get money from the pool that everyone pays into, and we think that that is fundamentally unjust.
If you're not making a system in which people can easily and uniformly access the subsidy, then it's a system in which you're essentially stealing some of that money from people with no return being promised.
Why is this is the case that adoption subsidies are not easily accessible and are not widely available?
Well, first, even if you're subsidizing adoption, there's still a huge cost of having a child after the adoption.
So it's not like someone can just willy nilly go out and decide to adopt someone, even if they think it's a noble pursuit.
But secondarily, many people so, in addition to that, it's there's only in addition to that, there's only so many funds that can go to this type of subsidy, so that even if you're going to subsidize all people up to a certain percent, it's still going to be a high cost at the end of the day for the second reason: that adoptions and pregnancies ultimately end up having very similar costs.
While pregnancies require high medical bills, many many trips to the doctor and, of course, the high cost of birth, adoptions have travel costs, they have paperwork costs, there's a lot of bureaucracy involved in adoptions and, at the end of the day, these two systems are relatively comparable.
But what that means is that in the status quo, if you are someone who is capable of having a child, who is financially able to do that, you are already financially able to adopt.
There's no barrier to entry for those people.
It's just an idea of people's minds, but we don't think that this is going to be very impactful in changing people's minds.
And why is that the case?
Because there are such high costs after the child comes into someone's life, there are people that have deeply held preconceived notions that they want to have their child.
They want to pass along their genes.
There's a biological drive, there's a social drive to do this, and we think that it's very unlikely that this particular subsidy is going to change people's minds.
Because there's no barrier to entry, we think the people that otherwise would adopt are adopting in the status quo and that for the vast majority of people, they're not going to change their minds because all of a sudden you don't have to pay quite as much when it comes to a decision like the child you are going to have and care for for the next eighteen years and love for the rest of your life.
We don't think that this is a principally impactful subsidy, nor do we think it is a principally just subsidy, and for these reasons, we should not subsidize adoptions.