We should not end mandatory retirement.
In this round, we're going to respond to the arguments made by the government about why mandatory retirement should be ended and explain why we think it is utile for society to have mandatory retirement and why that's the most important thing.
The first argument that they make is that mandatory retirement is simply age-based discrimination and that because bad workers are likely to get removed anyway and that age is not inherent to the quality of the work you're doing, that there are checks in the status quo to ensure that if age is an issue, it is addressed for other reasons.
So three responses to this.
The first is that there's a major difference between someone being a bad worker and someone lacking in the capacity to do jobs as well as others.
You can be a perfectly productive person, but maybe you don't have the experience and the knowledge about the current technological climate or the current cultural climate that allows you to bring unique ideas and perspectives to the table, that allows you to push forward.
There's a difference between being sufficient at your job and excelling at your job, and we think that because of the lack of continual training throughout someone's career, it's more likely than not that older people in the workforce are likely to be sufficient but not excelling.
And so we think removing people because other quality candidates exist is totally reasonable.
So the second response is that while age may be arbitrary, we think there's clear delineations at which point someone should be expected to be able to retire.
Having been in the workforce for forty, fifty years means that you should have had enough time to plan for retirement, to be prepared for this retirement period, whereas other people, younger people in the workforce, have had no ability to get the sort of savings, they'd had no ability to get the sort of upward mobile jobs within companies, and so we think you need to clear the room for them.
The third reason the third response is that there's a lot of reasons why someone who even is bad at their job may not get removed, especially if you're talking about someone with a significant amount of seniority.
These are often people that are in managerial positions.
These are people in positions of power.
The people that often have the ability to remove others are the ones that we're talking about in this round.
And so, whether it's because of a power imbalance, of fear of removal because of things like lawsuits, we think there's many reasons why people do not get removed when they should be, and so we think that it's important to have some sort of plan in place to remove those people.
They say this is unjust paternalism based on age, but generally we're more concerned with the utile outcome for society and the utility of recycling the work force and getting new people into jobs.
And we think that protections allow for benefits upon dismissal.
So even if people don't have a ton of money to retire, there's often protections, especially in the united states, like social security, that allow for these people to have a quality of life that is decent and allows them to use whatever savings they've had.
That's their next argument, that people just may not have the ability to retire.
They may not have the money.
But we think that the tradeoff with the tradeoff is that young people can't access jobs and aren't able to start providing for themselves in a way that allows them to be productive in society.
And their second argument is largely in response to this, that young people don't deserve the jobs more than older people and that young people have other options.
But two responses to these things.
The first is that it's not a question of whether young people deserve these jobs, it's a question of utility.
It's the fact that they bring new ideas, new cultural experience, technological advancement to the table in a way that, as we mentioned earlier, allows businesses to excel in productivity, to increase.
And we think that a large problem while young people may have other options as far as entry level positions, these older people largely clog up the hierarchy within the workforce, which means that they have less chance at upward mobility and less opportunity to really start building a foundation for themselves financially.
Finally, they say that decreasing dependence on the state through people working means that you have less harm to social security.
So, social security isn't dependent on unemployment, and so we don't think this argument actually stands.
For these reasons, we should not end mandatory retirement.