We should not increase immigration to the united states.
So, the first thing we're going to do in this round is explain why we think that the status quo is sufficient, why there's no obligation to increase the immigration that we currently allow, and then we're going to go and directly rebut the arguments made by the government side.
So, first, we would say fundamentally that the state has no obligations to people in other parts of the world.
Why do we think that this is the case?
First, we would disagree with the sort of liberal notion that rights are somehow inherent to our humanity.
Rights, rather, are are not inherent to our humanity.
If you look at the vast majority of human history, there was no such thing as human rights.
There was no such thing as a guarantee of property or some sort of guarantee of life, or movement, or anything like that.
We think that rights, rather, are a construct of the societies in which we live and if that is the case, we think the state's primary and overriding obligations are to the citizens of that state, as the citizens of that state are: one, those that are bound to the laws that it has created and therefore are under the restraint of the state ; but two, those citizens are the body by which the body to which the state is is constructed to serve.
So given that that's the case, we think that while certainly the state can give consideration to outside sources or outside people, its overriding obligations are to its citizenry.
We think that the current levels of immigration to the united states are entirely sufficient.
We still let in thousands upon thousands of people every year.
We let in people that have no that have no level of economic prosperity.
We let in people from all over the world.
And we think that the status quo allows for many of the pragmatic things, like a spread of culture and a distribution of resources, a competitive labor market, all of those things, without draining too many government resources that are otherwise obliged to current citizens of the united states.
So that being said, we think that the current levels are sufficient to get the pragmatic benefits the government says, but let's talk about the government's principal now.
They say, essentially, they would have a system of open borders which, first, I think would dramatic would lead to a dramatic increase in international chaos if, all of a sudden, this the united states allowed for open borders, and people started to try and flee in droves to the united states.
The amount of population movement, the amount of chaos that would ensue from that, we think, is ridiculous and also would create a massive resource strain on the united states, making it impossible for the united states to maintain any sort of quality of life for its people, or for these new citizens that are coming in as well.
But what they say is a principle to justify this is that freedom of movement is a fundamental universal right that arises from our humanity.
But as we explained earlier in this debate, we don't think that these things actually exist.
They try to use confirmation bias by saying: look, no matter what culture you look at, certain things we view as abhorrent in those cultures, things like murder or opposing murder are relatively universal, these types of things.
But just because certain things arise in different societies, simultaneously, does not make them some sort of universal truth or thing that must be followed, and therefore we think that rights exist, certainly, within our structures, and there are some sort of structures that exist on the global scale, but the right to become a citizen in another country is certainly not one of those.
They say, then, that movement is a facilitative right, that you need to be able to move places in order to balance out the the arbitrary nature of your birthplace, but I don't think that the arbitrary nature of your birthplace then justifies that you are deserving of some sort of new citizenship.
While, sure, all people may have some sort of inherent moral worth, we don't think that this gives, then, every single person a right to the exact equal share of everything in the world, and we think that that's just kind of a liberal pipe dream.
For these reasons, we should not increase immigration to the united states.