We should not adopt the metric system.
So, when we're talking about we, we're primarily talking about the united states, because the united states, as many are happy to point out, is one of the very few countries that still works off of a system that isn't the metric system for its units, but we think that those criticisms of the imperial system are simply surface level.
We think that when people mock the united states for using this imperial system, it's simply people pointing out that there's something unique about the united states, something that sets it apart from the rest of the world.
And when they when they launch actual criticisms at it other than, " well, everyone else is doing it.
Why shouldn't the united states? "
We think that most of these kind of fall flat.
So, one of those important criticisms is that the metric system is just vastly more intuitive than the imperial system, and that might be the case if you've grown up with the metric system your whole life.
Like, yes, people work off of base ten in many societies, but in many societies people don't work off of base ten.
People work off of base twelve, or base five, or other systems of counting, and the imperial system is derived from one of those earlier systems that was base twelve.
We think that given that given that over various time periods, multiple cultures have adopted different standards than just base ten, we think that when people say it's more intuitive, it's more intuitive if you've grown up with it.
If you understand it, it makes sense to you, but if you've grown up in imperial system, it also makes sense to you.
I understand roughly what a mile is, but I have no idea what a kilometer looks like.
It's hard for me to understand that.
And if you tell me, " well, it's a thousand times more than a meter, " that doesn't really register with me either, because I've been using feet for my entire life.
So, we think that this type of unintuitive nature is not an actual reason that we should make this transition.
It's just a reason why some may have a preference for the metric system.
And people will say there are conversion errors.
There's difficulty in conversion.
But we live in a technological day and age where conversions can be done by computer systems with a hundred percent accuracy one hundred percent of the time.
And, yes, there are a few major incidents in which there were conversion errors, but we think that there are also thousands of more major incidents in which scientists have blown experiments or in which people in manufacturing have messed up in various ways.
This isn't a reason to abolish the imperial system that the united states has.
It's just a reason it's just a reason for people to launch against the system.
It's an argument that people make that doesn't have any real teeth.
In almost a hundred percent of cases, these conversion errors don't happen, because I have a cell phone in my pocket that I can take out to tell me how many kilometers is in a mile, how like how to convert from pounds to grams.
It's not very difficult in today's day and age.
But we do think that there would be actual difficulty in adopting this change.
Because if you live in your day-to-day life, if you're just going around in your day-to-day life, you will probably continue to use the system that you are most comfortable with in the various things that you use every day: in your scales, in your speed limit signs, in the way that you talk about distances.
Those things are not going to change just because you change road signs and you say the united states is on the metric system now.
It's going to be passed down by the way that people speak with each other, by the culture that exists in the united states.
And because of that, we think it's unlikely to be successful, and if it were to be successful, it would take an immense amount of time in which you start creating more confusion than you're actually solving for.
And for these reasons, we should not adopt the metric system.