We should not ban the use of migrant workers.
In this round, we're going to explain why we think that all workers, no matter where they're born no matter where they were born or the country they reside in, should have the opportunity to work in the places where labor is needed.
So, we're gonna first respond to the arguments that the government side makes and then present a couple of our own.
The first argument the government side makes is that using migrant workers essentially takes jobs away from domestic workers, and they say that that the government needs to prioritize domestic workers, first and foremost.
So, let's break this down into a few parts.
First, it's important recognize that migrant workers often do jobs that no one is willing to do.
They do some of the most back-breaking labor that exists in especially in developed countries.
They do a lot of work that simply wouldn't be given to other people were they not working.
They do fundamental jobs in our societies but, more importantly, we think that oftentimes it's not a competition between domestic workers and migrant workers but rather between numerous migrant workers themselves to try and get these jobs.
But more importantly, these people are coming from largely impoverished areas, and they are just simply much more in need of employment, and even menial work, than the average person in a developed nation where migrant workers might be banned.
And so we think it's important to recognize that on a moral level, irregardless of where someone is from, all people deserve to have their basic needs met.
And in a capitalist system, the way that you can meet your needs is through employment and is through hard work.
These people take on a number of risks, they often have to leave their families behind, just to make a slightly better life for themselves, and we think that it would be irresponsible and immoral for us to ban migrant workers.
But it's not just important to recognize the moral necessity to help these people, but also to recognize that we, in developed countries, are partially to blame for the fact that they aren't able to get jobs in their own countries.
They're often impoverished because of years of colonial or imperial oppression, because of because of interventions in how their government functioned, especially from countries like the united states, and we think that there's a restorative obligation that we have to citizens of those states, that if they want to work in our countries, we should allow them.
The second argument that the government side makes is that migrant workers often bring things like crime and poverty, and they often take government resources that otherwise should be going to taxpaying citizens.
But, in reality, this just isn't the case.
Crime amongst migrant workers is often dramatically lower than the overall crime rates in the areas in which they're working.
They aren't able to get government benefits because they aren't citizens and, therefore, they aren't part of the programs in which benefits are given out.
And, again, we would just point out that these people are equally deserving on a moral level of all of those benefits of citizen the citizenship, the protection of a just, stable state, which is something that they're not getting what they migrate into the country.
A couple of extraneous arguments that we want to make: the first is that we think that just from an economic standpoint, it's important that you allow labor to move freely, because it allows for the most efficient allocation of those laborers.
We think that when you have arbitrary distinctions and borders being drawn to stop migrant workers from coming in, you're only hindering your own businesses and their ability to grow, especially for businesses that aren't necessarily looking for, you know, low-level migrant workers, but rather educated, skilled workers coming from other states.
We think it's important that you allow those most educated in as well, and this ban would not allow that to happen.
And finally, we think it's important to recognize that migrant workers don't just bring labor, but they also bring a number of other benefits.
They disseminate culture, ideas, and understanding.
They show members of our domestic states a new way of doing things, and they spread empathy across borders, which we think is immeasurable benefit.
For these reasons, we should not ban the use of migrant workers.