We should not raise the corporate tax.
In this round we're going to make two broad arguments: the first is about why taxes are principally bad and why this means we shouldn't raise the corporate tax, and second is about why the corporate tax and raising the corporate tax would be bad for economics.
So on the principle, we would say that taxes generally are theft in that in discussions over rates of taxation we should always defer to lower taxes.
So that brings the question, why are taxes theft?
We'd say that the government does not have the ability to explicitly get the consent of the governed.
It tries to come up with proxies like voting and military service however the average person has almost no sway over their government.
It's a largely coercive body that the government is able to use its powers in in a way that most people simply cannot check.
There may be checks internally, there may be other sort of structures that are meant to constrain the government, but fundamentally, at its very base, it has a coercive apparatus that the average person cannot check.
Taxes take away money that has been earned through the free market.
Through a system that people that people were not did not choose to enter but did choose how they're going to use their labor to maximize their own earnings.
And its and they earned they had earnings to spend on goods and services but the tax base may not even need.
So when you tax the fruits of one's labor we think that essentially that means that part of their labor was done for no profit and without their choice.
This is akin to forced labor which we think is simply an unacceptable abuse of government action.
We think the corporate tax does the same thing but on the corporate level.
You can think of a corporation as a large person who's component parts the individual people are working for the businesses profit and that profit is being taken away through this tax.
Even if it's being done to a wealthy corporation, and people like to demonized wealthy corporations, it's still the case that if you tax the benefits of that corporation, if you tax the profits, that huge amounts of labor were done without any sort of profit being generated to them and that people had no choice about whether or not they wanted to give up that profit for the government protections.
Yes, we recognize that taxes are sometimes necessary but realistically, when you have the option of either, as this debate provides us, raising or lowering taxes or keeping them the same raising taxes is always going to further these abuses, that while they may be fundamental in a fundamental part of our government run society, still are not acceptable and still are not something that we should endorse.
So, additionally, regardless of the principle, why do we think that this is bad for economics?
Well we live in a global market which means that if corporate tax rates go up other countries with lower tax rates become more competitive for attracting businesses.
This is already this is is this already is is exemplified in the atmosphere where there are many developing countries with low labor regulations, low taxes, and become havens for businesses to run with little regulation.
Raising taxes and chasing the corporations away simply strips individuals of jobs and yes, while the market may be doing fairly well right now, it doesn't mean that it's going to continue to do well in perpetuity and it doesn't mean that removing the the safe consistent access to jobs that individuals currently have is not going to lead to a type of downturn that will ultimately harm your harm the people you're trying to protect and serve through this taxation.
It also makes goods more expensive when they're being imported and taxed at the border which means even if you're not directly harmed by corporations, fleeing to other countries and fleeing to other markets, you're still harmed in your pocketbook when you buy those products.
We think that plenty of taxes exist that don't drive businesses away, produced revenue for the city things like income, property and wealth taxes don't do the same type of harm to the economy more broadly and still get the money that we think the government is going to try and get no matter what even if, as we explained, that money might have been taken in a principally unjust way.
Because it's better economically and because we should always defer to lower taxes we should not raise the corporate tax.