We should not fight urbanization.
So, in this round, we're going to take a very clear stance which is that, both for the economies and for human welfare, urban areas and cities are statistically and factually preferable to rural living and, therefore, we should support urbanization rather than fight it.
So, first, on the model, the government says we're going to incentivize rural living.
That's fine, tax breaks, whatnot, we think that's pretty clear.
So we want to give, before we even start this debate, four positive reasons why it is preferable to live in the city.
So the first is that there is simply easier access to jobs and to resources, because businesses are have a are much more likely to start in cities because they know it's easier to draw from a diverse job pool, rather than if you start your business in some rural area.
You just have a higher diversity of people, a higher diversity of backgrounds and, of course, more people.
It's also just economically efficient from a tax perspective to have people living in cities.
Because when you think of cities, you have a huge amount of people that can put into the collective taxation of the, you know, the collective local taxation, which means you've way more funding to do large projects.
So if you think of it this way, whether you're a rural area or you're a city, you need to have some basic public services.
You need to have things like a local school system.
You have to have things like a a fire department and a police department, but you have way fewer resources to draw from when you're in a rural area, because you just have less population, less population density, which means these programs end up being difficult to fund by themselves, but it also means that larger public and social work programs can't get funded at all because they're already stretched thin doing these very basic things.
Meanwhile, in cities, you can build large public parks, you can do things like have much more robust social safety nets, and this is empirically what we see.
Now, the government side, in their second point, tries to preempt this by saying, " look, individuals are given a false promise of success, " but we just think that that is empirically not the case.
If you look at the empirical evidence, if you compare people living in rural areas to urban areas and you kind of cancel out education, so you equalize education, you see that people in urban areas tend to have longer life expectancies.
They tend to have better rates of employment and better earning potential.
They tend to be more likely to be protected by a social safety net and more likely to have access to social programs than you are if you live in an a rural area, especially if you're in the lower class, because it's much easier to get around places.
It's much easier to get to, say, a welfare office that is a subway, you know, a subway ride away from where you're living than it is to get there if it's thirty miles away, because you live in the middle of wyoming and you just, you know, you just happen to live in that rural place that is very far away from any local offices.
So, it's just empirically the case that it is preferable for people.
But we also think it's preferable for the environment, which counteracts the first argument the government side makes as well, which is that cities have concentrated air pollution, and human health is really bad, etcetera.
So, first, we think it's important to point out that whether or not we fight urbanization, is not going to fight business.
So these factories and these businesses are still the main causes of pollution in these areas, are still going to be in these areas, because it's still much easier to draw employees from an urban population than it is from a rural population.
So these factories aren't going to leave, and that pollution is still going to accumulate.
But we actually think you're worse for the environment on the government side, because you have this massive shift of people living in urban areas, where they can take public transportation everywhere, to rural areas, where they need personal vehicles, which is both more costly for them and causes more exhaust and more pollution in the environment.
For all of these reasons, we should not fight urbanization.