Humanitarian aid should be subsidized.
So, we think that in addition to the current humanitarian aid that's given by the government directly to other nations, to other actors, that we should subsidize both companies, nonprofits, and NGOs who primarily work in humanitarian aid.
We think that this can come in the form of massive tax breaks.
We think that this can come in the form of grants, new grants that are created for these organizations, and by giving them additional resources.
We think that if you are a private organization that works with humanitarian aid, you should have to pay almost nothing in taxes, and you should be heavily funded by the government directly.
First, we think that it is crucial in all aspects of life to fight against the lottery of birth.
The lottery of birth is the idea that what is given to you based on where you were born, on the circumstances in which you found yourself being brought into the world, has a massive impact on your upbringing, has a massive impact on your life moving forward, and this is undeniable.
The fact that I was born in a middle class home in the united states, in a developed country, to parents who wanted me to succeed, who had the funds to allow me to do things like get a college education, there's nothing about about myself personally that made me deserving of being born into that situation.
And you can compare that to situations in in areas like developing nations, in which people are growing up in rural areas with no access to education, with little access to clean drinking water, with little access to medical service.
There's nothing a there's nothing different about me and the version of me that could have been born into that life.
There's nothing about desert that has to do with that lottery of birth, and we think that this makes the world a fundamentally unfair place.
But we think that all human beings have the same innate moral worth, that all people, just based on their existence as a human being, should be treated with an equal amount of dignity and respect and should be given equal opportunity when possible.
Humanitarian aid makes that happen.
It it allows us to have a system to fight against the lottery of birth, to fight against the harms that are created simply by where you were born.
And we think that we have an obligation as individuals to fight for to to help those that are less fortunate.
Many of us are in the situations we are because our ancestors abused those that are in situations that are currently in developing nations.
The colonization and imperialization of the world is what allowed developed nations to grow so disparate from developing nations, and we still benefit from that today.
And just because I, personally, did not take part in colonial practices does not mean that I don't benefit hugely from those and that I don't have an obligation to try and give back to recuperate for those past harms.
And we think that the way that we recuperate those past harms en masse is through humanitarian aid.
And so when you have businesses and NGOs and nonprofits that are doing this work, we think that as a collective, we have an obligation to subsidize those businesses as to make the world a better place and to recuperate for those past harms.
We think that this is an excellent use of a subsidy because it does public good.
Even if the public is not domestic in this case, even if it's going to foreign actors, that's still a part of the general, larger public, the public of humanity that is being helped.
It's going to a cause that is much deserved.
It's going to a cause that we are obligated to protect, and it's fighting against the unfairness inherent in our lives.
For these reasons, humanitarian aid should be subsidized.