We should abolish the filibuster.
The filibuster, when you look at it not as a political tool but rather as an impediment to action, as an impediment to democratic will, becomes something that in an objective sense is something that must be removed.
Yes, politicians on either side of the aisle, at various times, will support the filibuster when they are in the minority, but as an objective bystander, as an objective observer, we think the filibuster is clearly problematic for a few reasons.
First, the filibuster is blatantly anti-democratic.
While some refer to the tyranny of the majority, the filibuster allows for the tyranny of the minority.
If you do not have a super majority, if you don't have sixty percent approval on acting for something then, in the senate, you can just hold up a bill.
The minority party with forty one out of one hundred representatives can say this thing that is approved by representatives of the majority of the country cannot be allowed to pass, it's problematic, even though most people agree on this happening.
And people on both sides of the aisle are incredibly frustrated by it.
Whether you're you're in power or you're not in power at the particular present time does not change the fact that when you come into power, you'll want to be able to legislate.
You'll want to be able to act.
But what the filibuster currently does is mean no policy gets passed, no solutions are meaningfully attempted, and we can't learn from the potential mistakes of those solutions, become more informed as a society.
While at the same time, it goes against the democratic will.
The people that are in the majority were voted there by the majority of people in the country and as such, we think that the majority should be able to legislate in a democratic system.
We have a constitution with checks and balances to prevent abuses, but within the law that currently exists, we think legislation should be able to be passed.
If it's something tyrannical, we think that existing court systems will check, but this is something that we're talking about, very basic law, that can't that can't come to pass because of the filibuster.
It creates government by the bureaucracy rather than government by the people, and that's incredibly flawed.
Additionally, the filibuster is likely unconstitutional.
There's nothing in the constitution that allows the filibuster.
There's nothing there that says: yes, you you need to get more than fifty fifty one votes in order to pass any bill if these particular conditions are met.
No, this is all about senate procedural rules.
These are things that were written after the fact.
There's nothing in the constitution that says that you must have sixty votes in order to pass legislation as long as the minority party says you do.
This is something that is likely going against what the founding fathers intended and what the intent of the constitution is and therefore, is unconstitutional.
Finally, we think the filibuster incentivizes opposition rather than compromise.
There are many times, on comprehensive bills, where leaders in political parties will reach out to their counterparts across the aisle.
But when you have the option, as that opposition, to stand boldly and say, " no, we're not going to compromise.
We're not going to change our stance.
We're not going to try and come to some sort of agreement with you and instead, we're going to hold out and we're going to hope that you get blamed for those problems that we are not addressing collectively. "
That is incredibly harmful.
That creates more vitriol, it disincentivizes cooperation and, ultimately, citizens are have to bear the burden of it at the end of the day.
For these reasons, we should abolish the filibuster.