We should not abolish bitcoins.
While we acknowledge that just like any new and emerging technology there are issues that revolve around bitcoins, we think that overall bitcoins have become an important part of economic activity, that they facilitate a future that doesn't require state intervention in markets and ultimately that the issues the government side brings up are overblown.
The first argument the government side makes is that bitcoins are mostly used for black market purchases and they acknowledge that while there are legitimate businesses that are now accepting bitcoin, it's still mostly just used for illicit activity.
We disagree with that characterization of the proportion of actions with bitcoins being used for illicit activity.
Firstly, many people view bitcoin has a legitimate investment opportunity and therefore huge portions of bitcoins that are owned in the economy are owned as an investment tool rather than as a means for facilitating exchange in the market and this actually highlights an important problem not with cracking down on bitcoin which that if all the sudden you say you can't use bitcoin anywhere it has no value whatsoever then all the sudden the billions of dollars that have been invested in bitcoin disappear which causes tremendous economic hardship for those that have invested in bitcoin and we think that this is a unjust way of using government resources to crackdown on exchanges that prior to now have been entirely legal and people viewed as a possible investment opportunity.
We think that because the government had not gave -warning about this and we don't think the government is just going to buy those bitcoins back, we think that's highly unlikely given the amount of capital it would take to do so, we think that that would be unjust.
Secondly, it's also true, as the as the government side acknowledges, that bitcoins are used more and more for actually exchanging for actual market facilitation so it's not just black market activities and so we think that given that there is legitimate use of bitcoins you maybe need to crackdown on the black market in other ways.
You can do things like take down sites like the pirate bay and take down sites that like the silk road but we think that ultimately, the bitcoins themselves are not the root of the problem and we can see this because of the fact that before bitcoin was around sites like the silk road still existed and people had no problem facilitating illegal activities over the internet with things like with with other activities and other technologies that allow them to hide their IP, hide their transaction.
So we don't think that this is going to meaningfully crackdown a black market behavior.
The second argument they make is that this leads to tax avoidance and that that is super problematic.
Well firstly, we think that bitcoin exchange is such a tiny proportion of tax avoidance that currently happens.
We think if we're going to spend resources on cracking down on bitcoin because of tax purposes, then we should probably put more of those resources into closing the existing tap tax loopholes that we have and facilitating better tax collection overall.
But more importantly, we just don't think that this is a major problem.
We think that while it's true that people can avoid taxes, you are this argument is outweighed by the fact that in a system in which you have rampant use of bitcoin in which it's would which it's largely accepted you can move away from an economy that is facilitated by a state that no one consented into, that has regulations that many people view are unjust and taxes that many people view are unjust.
While we think that state the state apparatus is probably a necessary evil, we think that there are many people that have legitimate qualms with the state and ultimately they should be able to take action just shift their activities outside of that state apparatus which bitcoin provides them an opportunity to do.
For these reasons, we should not abolish bitcoins.