We should not ban fishing.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why banning fishing would be problematic.
The first of those arguments is that we think that this is an unjust ban.
And recognize that with this argument, there's something implicitly that needs to be said, and that's that we don't believe that fish have some sort of system of rights that apply to them.
So that when we're making considerations about this argument, about this debate round, we don't think that you can weigh the considerations of fish in any sort of comparison with the considerations of people.
The reason for this is that we think that rights are a system that are socially created and that in order to be protected under that rights system, you must be a part of the social construct that that system envelops, and that this system of rights that we all are protected by, that we hold dear, we think that this is a system of rights that is fundamentally a system of utility.
And the reason for that is that we think that all rights essentially come down to maximizing pain and minimizing pleasure from a human perspective, that when we create these rights, we do them from a human perspective.
So we don't think that this is a round that can be debated with the idea of fish rights or animal rights in mind or being weighed against.
So that being said, why do we think that this would be an unjust ban?
We think that in order for the state to justifiably ban something, it must do so under certain conditions, because what the state is doing when it bans something is it's using its coercive apparatus to restrict the freedom of its citizens.
But people consent into the state to have their freedoms protected, and they come into the state giving up some freedoms with the expectation that their freedom will be maximized overall.
So there must be some sort of reasonable line that we can draw where banning something is too much of a of a deprivation of freedom and doesn't accomplish a goal of maximizing freedom further.
So what would those instances be?
First, there could be a direct third-party harm, and this is why we ban things like murder and assault.
But again, this isn't the case here, because if fish cannot be considered human beings, they can't be weighed morally and ethically as humans, then we don't think there's a third-party harm occurring, because even if there's a harm to fish, it doesn't matter in the scope of human activity.
Secondly, there could be some sort of asymmetry of information that causes direct harm to the person that's doing fishing, but we don't think this is the case here.
We don't think that people that fish don't know about problems such as overfishing that that problems from fishing can occur, and we don't think that this is something that is generally at play here.
Finally, there could be some sort of overwhelming good of the community, and this is when concerns about overfishing come in.
But in order to solve for something like overfishing, you can put regulations in place to do these types of things.
You can say that the fish population, in order to maintain this ecosystem, must be at this level.
If you start fishing above this line, this is when this becomes illegal.
And it's not to protect fish, it's to protect the environments that allow us to continue to fish and that continue to allow life to thrive that ultimately leads to the healthy cycle of our planet that we need to survive.
So we think that you can do fishing in sustainable ways, but banning fishing outright is not sustainable fishing.
It's saying we're never going to allow this to occur, and there would be real outcomes real problems from that outcome.
First of all, there are some cultures and groups of people that completely rely on fishing for sustenance.
But more importantly, there's huge industries that arise out of commercial fishing.
And we think that a ban would cause a massive loss in both jobs and money that, as I said, regulation allowing us to solve for ecological problems means that there's no justified reason for the ban in the first place.
For these reasons, we should not ban fishing.