We should end the use of public housing.
So, we want to be incredibly clear in this debate.
We think that instead of having public housing, instead of having structures that are built and given to people for low that are of low incomes that have to pay low rents, we think instead of building these structures, we would rather have a system in which you provided heavy subsidies for people of low income to both pay rent and to purchase homes.
We think that this creates a system in which people have a vast vastly more choice over the area that they're living in.
It creates a system, if if they can purchase homes, in which they can accumulate assets and then can build some sort of credit and some sort of income and wealth for themselves, and they can store that value in their homes, and it creates a better overall life for those in low income.
So, recognize that, in the status quo, there is an incredibly poor standard in public housing.
Public housing areas are not made to be luxury.
They're not even made to be particularly comfortable.
They're just made to cram as many low-income people into one space as possible, which is why you have these huge mega apartments that exist that have thousands of rooms for these low-income people, and it's keeping them all cramped within these small quarters.
These are areas that are not very well upkept because there's because people know that these individuals are desperate.
So you don't have to upkeep them very well.
People view these areas with some sort of disdain.
There's an immense amount of stigma that exists if you come from the projects or if you come from public housing.
There's an idea that you are an " other ", that you are different, that you're coming from an area that is violent, that you're coming from an area that is drug-ridden.
And while it's the case that those things do exist in public housing without a doubt, there are two harms that come from that.
First is the harms of those things existing in the first place, the fact that people who are low income cannot escape these things, even if they want to, because they're forced into the same areas where they exist.
But additionally, it creates a stigma around all these people generally, and it gives them less credence within the public discourse.
It makes them less attractive to individuals that are hiring.
It means that they have less opportunity.
We also think that public housing largely creates reason regions of concentrated poverty.
And this largely exists in the form of racial segregation, that that while there are many people of low income, the vast majority of people that get forced into public housing are either black or latino, and these are individuals that are segregated and forced away from the rest of the society.
And what this means, when you concentrate so much poverty into these regions, it means that there's less school quality, cause there's simply less funds that that exist from the tax base in order to pay for these schools.
It decreases political representation, because you have regions that are represented solely by poor people and regions that are represented by middle-class and upper-class people, and it means that these two groups never intersperse.
They never comingle.
And it means that you have less empathy built between these groups and also that each of these different political areas have almost diametrically opposed ideals.
And additionally, it creates a massive drain on local resources.
When you have such a concentrated level of poverty in one area, it means that welfare systems in these areas are strained to the breaking point.
It means that so many resources need to go into this one area, whereas if you were to end public housing and subsidize rents, people could choose the location they live in, which means that they can go to better educational areas.
It means that you more disperse that poverty so that welfare systems are less strained.
And it means you have that comingling of different class groups, which means that political representation is often much better.
For these reasons, we should end the use of public housing.