We should not prohibit pipeline transport.
In this round, we'e gonna make three main arguments about why transporting things like crude oil, and natural gas, and other types of energy energy outputs through pipelines, these types of things are relatively and comparatively beneficial compared to other methods.
So, first, let's talk about the the the biggest benefit of pipeline transport, which is that it's highly efficient.
If you have to build out the infrastructure to do things like ship through ports, or or bring those bring the bring the same resources through train through trains, or or or transport them through other vehicles, these are huge supply chains that need to be constantly re-upped with human labor, with different resources, with fuel itself in order to do this type of transportation.
There's a huge amount of inefficiency that comes with that system whereas if you build a pipeline, you only need to ensure that it's maintained to a relatively high standard, but that is a much lower cost once you've put in all the inputs.
Once you've built the pipeline itself, it's a much lower cost for the people that are producing this type of energy, for the people that are using the pipeline.
And what that means is that when that cost gets passed on to consumers, it's also lower, because there's less costs that the that the company that's transporting these resources needs to internalize and, therefore, you can get the same profit margin while still competing on that open market and producing things at a lower cost.
And we think that that ultimately is beneficial to everyone involved, because there is a massive need for these resources in the status quo: things like crude oil, things like natural gas, these types of things that power much of the world around us.
And, yes, as much as we would like to move all of our infrastructure and all of our electrical and resource needs to green technology, that simply is not feasible in the status quo.
The infrastructure doesn't exist for it, the level of technological sophistication from things like solar, and from wind, and from hydropower simply are not at the level to actually meet our fuel needs, but we think that we can't just start going backwards in time.
People are not going to shift away from their current standards of living nor should they, as people are living a higher quality of life now than at anytime in the past in human history.
And because of that, we think that we should continue to fuel our present while we try and shift away from while we try and shift away from these resources, but we should be doing it in the most cost-effective and efficient way possible to ensure as high a quality of life for now as we can.
And, finally, pipeline transport is just less dangerous than other methods of transportation.
If you're doing this type of, say, you're transporting crude oil through a pipeline.
If you're doing that transportation through trains, through trucks, through shipments on the water, any sort of accident that occurs is going to result in a spill.
And and with pipelines where, if you get some sort of a spill, you can isolate where that spill is, you can address it, you can fix it, and you can do things to prevent the likelihood of that to begin with through regular upkeep and through normal inspection of the pipeline which, again, is a lower cost than hiring the vast amount of people you need to transport it in the alternative world, whereas you can separate that pipeline from civilization in such a way where you're lowering the risk of contamination of individuals in areas where it's important, if you have a if you have a transportation burst in the middle of a city or if you have it in a bay somewhere that is a major hub of economic activity, you can't prepare for that, you can't plan for that, and there's an increased risk that accidents will happen compared to the much more sterile environment of a pipeline.
For these reasons, we should not prohibit pipeline transport.