We should not further exploit wind turbines.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why wind energy and wind turbines are not the way to go for our future.
So first let's lay out the atmosphere right now.
We think that in the status quo there is simply a fungible amount of investment opportunity and resources that can be allocated to renewable energy.
So let's explain why.
In the status quo there is simply limited investment opportunity for renewable energy because compared to things like fossil fuels the price per kilowatt hour of these types of energies are still pretty low for the most part.
The tech simply isn't in a place to succeed right now and while those those costs, the price per kilowatt energy cost could go down over time with increased technological advancement.
There's simply other better investment opportunities to have right now.
Like if I want to make a yield on my investment I'm going to invest in things that are likely going to be able to be viable and feasible in the next five years as opposed to putting my eggs in this sort of basket.
So we think that the people that are investing in renewable resources are doing it broadly.
So these are people that are not particularly interested in the type of renewable energy but rather have some sort of political leaning that puts them down the path of saying " I want to invest in renewable resources because this is our future.
We need to fight climate change.
We need to have some sort of advancement to ensure that our species can survive in the long run ".
And given that this is the case that there's likely some then there's likely some sort of a trade-off between one resource and another because of I'm that type of investor and I have five hundred dollars to invest, I can either put that money in wind turbines, I can put it in solar, I can put it in hydrothermal whatever, or I can split it up and give a little bit of money to everything but at the end of the day, that's still five hundred dollars that's available to the entire industry of renewable energy.
We think that it's best to invest all of our funds in one basket.
The reason for this is that these types of energies are largely limited by their technological limitations and not by like the actual amount of energy that could be yielded from wind or solar or what have you and so technological innovations accelerate their amount of growth on an exponential scale.
So if if I am putting money into one resource, if I'm putting all of my money into one resource I'm likely to get a better yield at the end of that tale then if I split it up amongst many things.
If I improve you know I could either improve with you know all of my resources I could improve say all of the energy right now from ten to twelve percent efficiency or I can improve one type of energy from ten to thirty, thirty five percent efficiency and over overall that thirty five percent efficiency is much better.
We think that solar energy is a comparatively better thing to invest in than wind turbines and this is essentially a comparative debate about renewables.
So why is solar better?
One, the amount of potential energy is dramatically higher.
If you were able to harness all the energy that was hitting the earth from the sun, you'd be able to power in one day you would be able to exceed the energy demand of the entire planet for a year.
There's so much potential energy compared to wind energy in solar.
Additionally, there's already tons of investment in this.
So we're already further along the exponential scale than we are with wind turbines.
You have you have investors like elan musk putting millions and millions of dollars into these spheres and so we think that there's when you have some sort of a trade-off and you have to make a decision about what we're going to exploit we shouldn't be exploiting wind turbines because solar energy is just vastly more likely to lead us away from fossil fuels and lead us towards the green future that we really need.
For these reasons, we should not further exploit wind turbines.