Homeschooling should not be banned.
In this round we're going to make two main arguments and they kind of flow together: the first is about why this would be an unjust ban, and the second is about why, even if you think that this is something that should be banned, we think that it would be preferable to regulate home schooling and that you get most of the solvency that a ban seeks to address anyway.
So let's talk about why that ban would be unjust.
We would say that the government is unjust by its nature because it lacks the fundamental and firm consent of the people.
Yes, the people may do things like vote and take other civil actions but we don't think that this is actually what makes a government just, rather what makes a a government just is by maximizing freedom.
Because the government is in, in essence, a body of a course of apparatus we think that if you use that course of apparatus to maximize freedom this is something that most people would consent into and therefore the most just way of running a government.
We think that education was one of the most important aspects of a person's upbringing.
It can have a huge impact on determining the path of their future.
It sets the fundamental groundwork for how they move forward in life, how they take in information and how they do well in their studies and how they do well in their professions.
We think that parents have the most information about their children and that they're the best actor to determine what type of education and what type of environment is going to lead to those best outcomes because it, simply put, parents are around their children on a day to day basis.
They understand their children, they deal with their children when they're happy, when they're sad, in all sorts of emotional states and this is never information that the government is going to be able to access or comprehend nearly as well as parents can.
It's also, we think the case that in the vast majority of cases, parents have a vested interest in insuring their children succeed in the future if for no other reason than they than the fact that their children will be able to be financially independent and no longer have to be the burden of the parents.
Given that this is the case we think that parents should have the freedom to home school children if they see fit as we think there are genuine benefits to homeschooling.
You get a more personalized, one on one type of support for children.
Some children simply need way more support than other children in order to understand the same concepts.
We think the peace of the class is ultimately, when you homeschool, going to match that of the child's wording learning.
So you don't have to worry about being left behind by the rest of the class if a topic makes use a topic is struggling and difficult for a child, you can pause and if the topic is easy for the child you can move on more quickly.
The child also may have severe anxiety and bullying issues with other students and we and they may just popular comfortable being around those other people which makes it really difficult to learn.
If you're constantly worried about a bully coming around and doing something to undermine your personal your personal security and your own safety it's very difficult to even process the information that's being sent out in the classroom.
So why do we think it's preferable to regulate?
So in addition to ensuring that all of those good benefits that we just talked about can be accessed.
You can ensure that you have a quality education in home school and maximize personal freedom by regulating.
What are some regulations, common sense regulations, you can put in place?
You can require bare minimum qualifications for an educator.
You can require certain courses and classes be taught and have standardized tests to check for quality.
You can require that students attend school a certain amount of time per day so they're not just doing this thing that isn't instilling good daily habits for them.
And you can invest in regulators to check in and advise home schoolers.
We think that regulation ultimately gets the best of both worlds.
It ensures that parents have the freedom to make choices for their children, it ensures that children can be in a homeschooling environment when it's really what they need in order to get a good education, and it ensures that you get all of this in a quality way through regulation.
For these reasons homeschooling should not be banned.