We should not limit campaign finance.
Ultimately, when we're talking about limiting campaign finance, we're talking about doing things like setting a cap on how much money an individual can donate to a particular campaign, it's setting limits on the amount of anonymous donations that can be made, it's setting limits on things like the amount of time prior to an election in which you can donate to a political campaign.
These are the fairly common practices when we talk about limiting campaign finance or campaign finance laws, and we think that, ultimately, those are unjust, because the way that you choose to spend your money, especially when it's in a political sense, we think should be counted as speech, we're gonna walk through that in a little bit more, as we respond to the arguments of the government side.
So the first the first argument that the government side makes is that when you have such intense amounts of money in politics and unlimited campaign finance, what you get is ultimately the elite are able to control the political system by choosing their preferred candidates at the cost of the democratic public, and ultimately you get a less democratic system.
But we don't think that that is actually empirically the case.
So, first and foremost, when you're looking at large-scale political spending, you often have lots of money coming in from both sides.
And while, yes, it's true that elites in this country are able to donate lots of money to candidates, they still only get one vote, and people still have to go out there and elect these these politicians democratically.
But second, if you look at someone like donald trump running in the primary, he had won the least amount of funding of any presidential candidate that that has ever won the primary for a major party, at least relative to, you know, current spending, and we think that and it's clear that it doesn't just take money to win elections, but you also need to have some sort of appeal to the populace.
And we think that how you choose your money shouldn't be how you choose to spend your money shouldn't be restricted if it doesn't lead to an active harm to others.
And while some can say that one person winning political office harms themselves in one way or another, there's no direct harm that comes from that.
But what money does do is it says, " this is how I value things ; this is what I'm choosing to value. "
The place that you put your dollars is is, in a very legitimate sense, a way of saying and signaling to other people, a way of speech of speaking how you feel politically, and we don't think that you should limit this type of speech, especially if it's political speech.
The second argument that the government makes is that money in politics doesn't just lead to control by the elites, but it leads to corrupt politicians.
But we think that there are just so many ways that are far worse that that politicians are able to be corrupt in the status quo: things like having a revolving door of lobbyists, having things like many like having a promise of a high-paying job once you retire from congress or retire from political life, things like having multi-thousand-dollar speaking gigs and having vacations offered to you from companies, things like that.
There are so many different ways that politicians are made corrupt in the status quo, but at least with campaign finance law, at least when you open campaign finance laws, there are two things that are beneficial compared to those other types of corruption.
One: those things are public.
So, in large part, if you're donating to a political campaign, those donations are not anonymous, and so people can see where candidates are getting their money from and judge them accordingly.
The second thing that's a benefit, though, is that major spending by elites can be balanced out by, say, things like crowdfunding and small donations.
Bernie sanders, for example, was able to get almost as much money as hillary clinton, almost entirely from small donations, from grassroots campaigning and things like that.
We don't think that this that the status quo is one in which elites have total control over how campaigns are financed.
We don't think it's a status quo in which people need to have their political speech limited.
And for these reasons, we should not limit campaign finance.