We should limit the right to self defense so when we say we're going to limit the right to self defense what we mean is that this right is not absolute that you should have to take reasonable steps not to use violence not to harm an attacker before that self defense can be justified so things like stand your ground laws we would say are bad you need to take reasonable steps not to use force and if you immediately chose to use force we would say that you would be liable in court for the violence that you've done.
Okay why do we think that this is the case?
First we would say that people use poor judgment when acting in self defense and second we would say that we want to avoid any sort of punishment through non legal channels and that self defense is in practice and in reality a form of punishment for an act that someone has done.
So on that first point.
When people feel they are at risk they are much more liberal with using force.
People's biases affect how they process risk for example people have a subjective of subjective bias against black men this is something that's built been built up through our media and through our history for centuries and this is something that when a black person when a black man is coming at you in a way that you view to be opposing you're more likely to use force against them than you are if it was a white man.
This is a this is just one of the ways in which our subjective biases can affect how we process the actual risk that is being done against us and if we can't trust those if we can't trust our subjective measurement of that risk then we should at least have to curtail whether or not we're going to use violent acts to protect ourselves when we really might not be protecting ourselves or at least not protecting ourselves from the risk that we think we are facing.
We think that a full right to self defense relies on people actually acting in self defense the majority of the time that they actually know not just that they are in danger but the level and degree of danger that they are in because even if someone is assaulting me even if someone is going to punch me in the face or do something like that we would say that because doing something like shooting them like taking their life is not proportional it's not a reasoned response to the risk I'm facing if you can't both recognize that you are at risk and recognize the level of risk self defense needs to be curtailed.
So for these reasons we think that people simply are bad judges of the risk that they are facing and because of this self defense cannot be absolute for it to be just.
Alright so we will also want to avoid punishment through non legal channels.
Punishment is only distinguishable from assault or an attack because of the legal system of judgment.
A fair trial guarantees an unbiased ruling and a proportional response at least in theory and when compared to self defense in practice it does a much better job of getting the proportioned response.
We think spur of the moment act of self defense is paralleled to punishment insofar as it a is insofar as it is a response to a crime.
It comes about because of a crime.
We think that that self defense does not have any of those checks that the legal system does it does not give you an a chance as a defendant to state your case to explain your actions to explain why you might have been doing the thing you're doing and why it isn't deserving of punishment.
Limiting the right to self defense results in more instances of people fleeing flight rather than fight.
And we think that this means that a fair and reasoned response from the justice system is more likely if I am at risk and I choose to flee rather than to kill my assault rather than to kill my assailant then that assailant is more likely to go before a court is more likely to get some sort of verdict rule and the response that we get we are more secure as a society in knowing that is the correct response then simply allowing people to have an absolute right to self defense.
For these reasons we should limit the right of self defense.