Big governments should be abandoned.
We're not going to set any sort of bright line as to what too big of a government is, or too small of the government.
We're just going to say that principally we would prefer a system with smaller governments to one with larger governments.
We think that that is straight forward and a principle basis that we can have a debate about.
That being said, we've two main arguments.
The first is that the state and states in general are fundamentally unjust and therefore making the scope of that state larger only increases the amount of unjustness that exists and the second is that amalgamating preferences on a large scale is impossible and therefore at a practical level, serving the purposes of a state is much harder when you have a very large state.
Okay so that first argument.
We would say that the state's main function, what the state primarily does, is to limit the natural freedom of other people.
This is via the threat of force that the state can wield against the people with the only sort of legitimate force that can be used in their terrain.
This means that in order for such force to be legitimate you must have some sort of consent of the people that are being witness and being subject to that force otherwise, there's no difference between the coercion that the state is imparting on the people that the state controls than there is between the force that an armed robber is imparting upon those that he is stealing from.
So we think that big government makes that impossible to do.
There's no way to get the consent of all of the people that the law is going to govern in order to ensure that that consent is meaningful and that that consent exists for all.
Let's think of some of the ways that we try and create a proxy for consent.
One of the big ones is through voting but the problem with voting is that one, voting just doesn't cover huge portions of the population that live within the state's borders and two, if you're stuck in a situation between not wanting to be in the state but not having any sort of control over the state AKA not voting and not wanting to be part of the state but voting because it's the lesser of not having any sort of control whatsoever, it shows that there's very little meaningful consent that can be drawn strictly from voting.
The same argument applies when people say that taxes are a form of consent.
Again, taxes are something that are forced for people to have and there's no real contract between the state and the people like some philosophers argue for that there's some sort of tacit consent and tacit consensual relationship between the state and the people and finally you can't feasibly opt out of the state because of you try to leave the state, you're in a situation where you're almost certainly going to have to go to another state to protect you.
Therefore, the big state is naturally coercive.
So on the second argument about amalgamating preferences, we would say that in order to be just on a practical level the state must amalgamate the preferences of the people in the sense that the state should serve the vast majority of the people.
It should try to serve the preferences of the most amount of people.
This is much more difficult to do in a big government and a big state because there are such a diversity of preferences, of backgrounds, and of moral systems that makes it impossible for you to for the state to try and compose all of those contracting views into one cohesive narrative and one cohesive legal system.
We think that small governments cooperating with one another for things like trade and interstate peace do much better at balancing the need for large scale cooperation while at the same time allowing for people most people within a state's borders to consent in and live under the laws that are applicable applicable to them.
That means that when you have a smaller government you're more likely to have more direct democracy, more direct control over who's in charge, and what those laws are, and you're more than likely to have the communal nature that makes it less likely that state is going to need to enforce these types of things through force and through conflict than you are with a large state.
For these reasons, big governments should be abandoned.