We should not subsidize student loans.
In this round, we're going to make two main arguments about why it would be unjust to subsidize student loans.
So, first, we want to talk about how people have a choice of going to school.
We think that this is important because if we're giving out a subsidy for something, we think it should be something that generally is accruing a public good, generally is something that is fighting an unjust outcome.
So we think that there are lots of instances in which people, just based on the society that we live in, are prone to having unjust outcomes accrued to them, either because financial resources aren't dispersed evenly between individuals or because there are social pressures to do certain things.
But going to school, we think, is a real choice.
We think that there are multiple financial options that are available to people when they're going to when they're going to university.
There are cheaper schools that people can go to.
There's community colleges that, in many cases, are practically free for children to do, that allow you to have less of a financial burden when going to university.
You can work to afford your tuition, and you can do things to make it the case that you're able to pay to go to school.
So we don't think that people that are taking on these loans and taking on these burdens didn't have meaningfully meaningful alternatives to taking on the high student loans that they're actually receiving.
And loans are high, but crushing debt isn't a necessary factor of going to college.
People would say that there's a lot of social pressure to go to top-tier schools, and there's a lot of social pressure to go to university in general.
But we think that, in the recent past, this social pressure has waned because of the opportunities that are that are available outside of college.
There's there's abilities for people and there's ways that people can be self-taught and they can get high-skilled jobs in things like programming and computer science and areas like this.
So we don't think that college the pressure for college is that high.
And, even if there is pressure, there are still meaningful alternatives.
Going to a state school can be something that's very good for someone, and something that can be affordable.
And we think that in instances where people cannot afford school, where they're the most unable to make these payments, these are likely the cases in which people are receiving the most funding.
So given that this is the case, we don't think that people need to be taking on these loans, and so we don't think that this is a good subsidy, because we think that, principally, a subsidy should be going to something that's going to accrue a large public good.
We don't think that there's a large public good to be gained by giving money to people that made the choice to take on these large student loan burdens.
People had the ability to make a different decision.
They had the ability to go to less expensive colleges.
They had the ability not to go to college at all and try and get a job without going to college, but these are choices that they did not make.
And given that that's the case, because every person is paying into the tax bill that's going to go toward subsidizing these student loans, we think that it's important that everyone have the ability to access that type of benefit.
But there are many people that never will go to college, that never want to go to college, and that even with this subsidy, probably couldn't go to college.
And we think that if they're unable to, at least theoretically, take advantage of this benefit, to take advantage of this subsidy, then there's no way for this to actually be a public good.
It's just an improvement of a good for a certain class of society, for a certain group of people.
It's privileging them when it comes to taking from the general pot, even though all people put into that pot.
And frankly, most people put in more than these students do.
Given that that's the case, we simply don't think that it is a good subsidy, that it principally is a positive subsidy, in order to to subsidize these student loans.
We think that there are better uses of public funds that actually go to a large public good.
There are ways that you can spend these resources, even to benefit general education, that aren't subsidizing a select a select few group of people that chose to take on high student debt.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize student loans.