We should not fight the sedentary lifestyle.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think the sedentary lifestyle is not necessarily as problematic as people make it out to be and why it's actually a sign of growth as a society.
So, first, let's talk about how we believe that the sedentary lifestyle actually corresponds with a higher quality of life.
So, what the sedentary lifestyle basically equates to is a lifestyle in which the majority of your time you're spent sitting down or you're not moving, you're not being physically active, but what this corresponds to is something that we think most people appreciate and most people want the continuance of, which is the development of more specialized jobs, of higher skilled jobs, higher-paying jobs.
These are the types of things that generally require less exhausting manual labor which, as we know, manual labor leads to higher risks of long-term and short-term health problems, manual labor has an increased rate of accidents in the workplace.
It's a simply a more dangerous type of job to be doing compared to more sedentary jobs in which you are spending most of the time in front of a computer screen or you're spending most of the time sitting at a desk and doing some sort of business, participating in some sort of business.
We think that this generally leads to higher qualities of life because you do have higher pay.
You do have higher rates of workplace safety.
You have more benefits being provided to you.
Generally, all of these things equate with more more time for personal relaxation and more time for you to to pursue the ends that you want to pursue, without the fear that your economic situation is going to limit you, a better quality of life overall coming from these jobs.
And secondly, what's important to recognize is that sedentary lifestyle does not exclude regular exercise.
A sedentary lifestyle is about how you spend most of your time, but this doesn't mean that you can't spend thirty minutes, an hour a day being physically active, going to the gym, going for a walk every day, spending your time during your during your lunch at work, for example, going out for a walk, doing the types of things that allow you to get the physical activity you need to be healthy while still being able to pursue most of the things that you want to pursue while being sedentary, while having a generally low stress affect on your body.
But you can still do things to ensure you're physically fit.
You can still spend some time working out every day.
You can still eat healthfully and ensure that you're taking care of your body in terms of nutrition.
So we don't think that when people say the sedentary lifestyle is just turning everyone obese, it's making everyone it's it's making everyone much less healthy and these types of things, we actually think the sedentary lifestyle, as far as how it corresponds with the growth of certain jobs, has led to lower risks of of health and injury concerns and that it doesn't necessarily include , by definition, it doesn't include that people are not going to exercise.
We've seen a big boon in exercise in the last decade or two.
We've seen that obesity rates, while certainly high, are not on the rise, are not continuing to rise, and that as people get more income, as people have more job security, they do things that allow them to eat healthier, allow them to have healthier lives.
Obesity rates are, in fact, the highest amongst the lowest class of society, and we think that with increased increased specialization, removing people from that bottom class and moving them solidly into the middle class where they have job security, these are things that prevent actual long-term health risks and ensure you have the money to pay for certain situations, to pay those health costs when they arise.
For these reasons, we should not fight sedentary lifestyle.