We should ban foreign workers.
In the status quo, it is possible that you can attain a visa in order to come work in the united states.
This is also possible broadly across the world.
In fact, there are many countries that have that are heavily reliant on foreign workers in the status quo.
When we're talking about banning foreign workers, we're talking primarily in developed countries.
We think that when it comes to developing countries, that infrastructure is very different and that that needs to be a different conversation, though we think that much of this can apply, is kind of broadly aplicable, to all foreign workers.
But we're primarily going to talk about developed countries.
So, firstly, foreign workers, one of the primary things that foreign workers do is these people aren't citizens of the state.
They don't come to the state in order to live there, in order to become a part of the community, in order to build up themselves and eventually immigrate.
Yes, that can be the case for some green card holders but for many of these people that are just designated as foreign workers, they're there in order to provide for their family.
And so what ends up happening is that foreign workers will earn an income, save just enough so that they can support themselves while they're in country, and send the rest back home in what's known as a remittance.
And these remittances are incredibly detrimental to local economies.
The reason for that is that if you have two workers and one of them is broadly a part of the community and one of them is not, and that latter one is sending money out the door, is sending it out of the country, it means that the overall purchasing power of the community goes down.
It means that that money that otherwise could have been used to reinvest in the community, to support local businesses, to support local products, to invest in local to invest in sort of local action or even just in the state action more broadly, that that money is going away and is leading to more purchasing power in outside communities.
And, yes, while those foreign workers certainly are generating production within the state, it's not keeping that productive capacity and all of the assets gained from that productive capacity in the state itself.
And so remittances are a clear detriment of foreign workers.
But on top of that, there are plenty of domestic workers that need jobs.
We're not at a situation in which there's full employment in the in the US economy or in any developed nation's economy, for that matter.
There's not a situation in which there's no tradeoff between foreign workers and domestic workers.
If you bring in foreign workers, it means that there is a domestic worker that likely could have had that job that no longer is able to hold that job.
And that is the case for the vast majority of jobs that we're talking about.
But we think that the state has an obligation to put its own citizens first.
When there's a tradeoff between a foreign citizen and a citizen of one's country, because of the fact that you are putting pressures on your own citizens, you're restricting their freedoms, you're taxing them and taking away their money, you're doing things that restrict their own personal freedom, you are then obligated to put themselves ahead of the citizens of other countries because you're not putting those same harms on those other citizens.
There's a reciprocal obligation that goes between a citizen and its nation.
And in this case, allowing foreign workers to come in, take jobs from domestic workers, and send the money from those jobs outside of the state not only hurts the economy writ large, but it harms people it harms domestic citizens themselves, and for these reasons, we should ban foreign workers.