We should introduce goal line technology.
So the type of technology we're talking about would be a technology that allows you to see whether a goal has been scored or not in soccer.
The way that you can check these things is that every time there is a goal or every time there is a supposed goal you would have a brief stoppage time where, in most cases there already is some stoppage time, and there would be a quick review from not a line ref but rather from someone in a booth in the stadium another ref on the refereeing team who would say whether or not the goal went through, confirm the results.
Alright so we think that the main benefit that we derive is that we get more accurate results.
So we're going to explain why that's the case and why that's important.
So, why is it the case that you get more accurate results?
Because we think it's clear that using modern technology to update an old game is a way to insure that we get the most vision on what actually incurs.
It insures that all goals are accurate.
It's not difficult to tell whether or not a goal crossed a line when you have two cameras pointed at that line that can zoom in on exactly whether or not someone stopped the ball before it went across that line.
It's not a very difficult thing to do, but in in the moment, when someone is watching this thing fold out live and they can't slow it down on a camera, human error is entirely possible and does happen all the time.
We think that that human error is taken out entirely from the score as any sort of potential.
So why should I even care about accuracy in a soccer game?
Well firstly, we would say that the sport exists only because fans feed into it.
They give their time, they give their money and they give their emotion to the sport and specifically to the team they root for.
Fans care that when their team goes out to compete that the game and not human error decide the result.
They want to know that when they're watching a game that if their team competes the hardest, if they do the best and if they go out there they're going to be rewarded with a win and that that win won't just be taken away from them because some person because some referee accidentally called a goal when a goal was not scored or the opposite, didn't score a goal for the team that a fan is rooting for when it should have gone in.
What is the impact of this?
Firstly, we think you increase the overall interest for the game when you know that there's more confidence in the results and there's more money for the game which means that you are able to spread it more, you're able to pay the players better, you're able to get more returns for owners, all types of things.
Yes, this is probably a marginal gain compared to the status quo but we think it's a gain nonetheless and that's something that should be highlighted.
We also think that the purpose of the sport is to raise as like as like an ethereal thing is to raise athletic excellence in competition to the highest level.
We think that guaranteeing accuracy of results allows that focus to be on sport and that that focus to be on the competition rather than the decision of a referee and oftentimes when a referee makes a bad decision all the attention is put on that decision, the media attention, the fan attention is all directed there which we think is a bad reflection of the sport itself.
So, finally will this disrupt the game?
No.
A stoppage occurs after a score anyway and the vast majority of cases are open and shut.
Most of the time, when a when a goal is scored that ball goes to the back of the goal and it's incredibly obvious that this has been a goal.
But when the review does take time, so in the few instances where it may take some time, we think that these is these are likely to be very little amounts of time but more importantly they're likely to occur in instances where the wrong call would be the most impactful in a big game, in a championship game, in a close game, in a rivalry game.
These are types of times in which taking the time to ensure that you have accuracy in your results have the most impact and these are the times when you may get some disruption but we think it's massively outweighed from all of the benefits that we already talked about earlier.
For these reasons we should introduce goal line technology.