We should not prohibit reality television.
In this round, we're gonna make two broad arguments about why we shouldn't prohibit reality television.
The first is that we believe that this would be an unjust ban, and the second is that we don't think reality TV actually has a major harm on our culture.
So, first, on the ban.
We think that it is the case that the government, by default, is a coercive body.
It has the sole power to legitimately use coercive force, and it can constrain people's action to a massive degree.
It has huge authoritative power over individual freedom.
We think that the reason people consent into the government, in the first place, is to maximize their freedoms, because outside of the state apparatus, there's no protectionist body to ensure that things like the right to life, the right to property, the right to personal expression can actually be secured and be used with with assurance that you won't be harmed for those things.
We think that the state becomes just, therefore, by maximizing freedom, given that the reason people consent into the state is ultimately to ensure their freedom.
So they give up some modicum of freedom in order to in order to maximize overall freedom and overall protection.
We think that bans necessarily restrict personal freedom.
So, by default, bans directly go against the conditions of maximizing freedom and therefore, we think they can only be just under certain conditions that ultimately lead to more net freedom for all citizens.
We think that a ban on reality TV simply doesn't meet these standards.
So what do we think those standards are?
First, we think that it is just to ban something if there is necessary and direct third-party harm from taking the action.
So this is why we ban things like assault.
This is why we ban things like taking action that directly harms another person.
We think that this is clearly not the case with reality TV, that in the instance of watching or producing or participating in reality TV, there's no direct harm that can be passed on to another person and therefore, the ban cannot be for this reason.
The only other way that we think a ban can be justified is if there's asymmetries of power or information that prevent actors from making rational decisions.
So, in instances, say, when the government has more information about a product being harmful, they can ban that product when that information cannot be disseminated amongst the people in order to allow them to make real choices.
So we think there's no real harm to those that view reality TV.
There's no asymmetry of information about the impacts of viewing reality TV, there's no real direct harm.
So, for both of those reasons, we think that a prohibition on reality TV would simply be an unjust ban.
So, let's talk about the actual impact of reality TV on our culture.
So, we think that opponents have three things that they say reality TV does.
It emphasizes poor morals, it lies to viewers about its reality nature, and that it largely degrades our media.
So we think that all those things are not sufficient reasons to ban.
So, firstly, we think that there are poor morals in plenty of our media in that in that it the reality TV mostly just shows drama, and it emphasizes drama, but that this isn't necessarily a bad moral action.
But furthermore, we just don't think that the government should dictate morality in the media.
We think that giving the government this authority creates a slippery slope to banning art of all shapes and sizes because someone finds it morally reprehensible.
So, secondly, we think that people additionally know about the nature of reality TV.
We think that this argument may have been valid a decade ago, but in the age of social media and media oversaturation, we think that people are simply aware that reality TV quote unquote is not actually real.
And finally on media: we think that degrading our media, we think that media is a matter of taste.
There's no reason that taste in reality TV is necessarily or intrinsically worse than your taste in any other type of art.
We think that this is an entirely personal decision and that certainly a a personal decision should not be something that's prohibited by the state.
Given that all this is the case and that the ban would be unjust, we should not prohibit reality television.