We should not introduce goal line technology.
In this debate we have two main arguments that we're going to present as to why goal line technology would be harmful for soccer and be harmful for the growth of the sport and for fans.
So the first is about harms to the game and the second is broadly about harms to fans.
So, on the flow, or on the harms to the game.
We think that there is a natural flow to a game and that that flow the game as well as possession is very important to soccer and important to the way that soccer is played.
We think that flow dictates the aggressiveness of how players are going to comport themselves, and how players are going to develop their strategy.
It also builds momentum for a team, which while this momentum is like hard to quantify, it's something that allows people to play at a higher level, allows the sport to get to a higher level, and allows for the games to be more exciting, both for the players and for the fans.
We think that goal line technology massively disrupts that flow, because it takes a lot of time to review a call or to review whether or not a shot was actually a goal.
And this is time that, especially in soccer, is very very important, is very disruptive to the flow, because soccer doesn't have things like timeout, soccer doesn't have lots of disruptions in the play for example as compared to other sports like basketball, in which there are lots of disruptions to the sport that aren't commercial disruptions.
So introducing this type of a disruption would actually be quite dramatic as it comes to soccer, and we think would harm the flow of the game and would make players less acutely aware of what's going on.
It would disrupt that momentum that gets built up over the course of the game, and would just ruin the purity of the game as it currently exists.
We also think that fans simply have like shorter attention spans than they used to have, and people, if if that flows disrupted as part of the game, that flows also disrupted as part of the fan experience, as part of the user experience.
And it means that people are more likely to turn away and just look at highlights after the fact, which is obviously less profitable for soccer, for the teams and for the institution writ large.
So we think that introducing this goal line technology presents serious harms to the game itself.
We also think that it presents harms to fans.
So we think fans are important because they are generally how sports produce their revenue.
Without fans you don't have the sport itself, and so we think it's important to keep fans happy the majority of the time, when it doesn't harm the sport.
So why do we think there's a harm to the fans?
We think people already know whether or not a goal call was legitimate.
Like as a viewer you have the technology, you have the replay, you have all these things to know whether or not a call was right or wrong.
So this doesn't introduce any new information to fans, it's just a way of stopping the game.
But we think that when you adopt this technology it signals that the refs are often wrong.
That there's a reason that this needs to be instituted because it is often the case that these things need to be reviewed.
It's not just a fluke every now and again that these calls get wrong, and you need to correct for this.
This means that people start to lose faith in other calls that aren't being reviewed.
In the way that officials referee a game for the majority of the game, outside of calls of a goal or a not goal, and we think this is important because fans start to lose faith in the game.
Finally, we think that fans tend to just bond over complaining about refs.
People getting the call wrong, human beings messing up as referees is part of the fan experience.
It's part of the sport.
It's part of a brings fans together and bonds communities of people that support the same club.
It's the ability to reminisce and to become frustrated over experiences that everyone shared in.
And even though referees without goal line technology will occasionally get the result of the game wrong, we think that that is outweighed by the fan experience in the community build that comes with people complaining about that game.
And of course it ruins, because it ruins the faith in referees, we think that on net it creates more harm for fans.
For these reasons we should not introduce goal line technology.