We should not end the use of economic sanctions.
In this round, we're gonna make two arguments about why we think economic sanctions are beneficial tool of international diplomacy.
The first argument we're gonna make is that this is the most just method of deterrence.
So, we think that in the international sphere, state sovereignty is incredibly important, not just because many nations have codified that this is important, not just because this is a norm that is often respected, but because we think that people should have a right to self-governance, that people should have a freedom of association, and that having this type of sovereignty leads to a stable form of governing, when the state knows that it's going to have continuity, and it's good for maintaining peace generally.
When you have a norm of state sovereignty, it means that generally peace is the status quo.
We think, even with this, you still need tools on the international level to foster change, because sometimes governments do fail their people and there needs to be a a way of intervening in these situations, but also they occasionally do things that go against the interests and self-defense of other nations, and there needs to be some sort of way to deter this action.
But violating sovereignty through invasion or other measures is incredibly extreme.
We think that sanctions are a good method of deterrence because they create change without taking any sort of steps that violate sovereignty.
If you, as a state, declare that your businesses, that your people cannot trade with other businesses and other people from that other nation, if you say, " we will not take in your goods, and we will not sell you goods, " there's nothing about the state's sovereignty that's being violated.
The state internally is still able to do whatever it deems fit, but it means that you're using your sovereignty to make a decision about how your people are going to behave.
And again, we think the alternative forms of deterrence are far worse: either war or direct confrontation, which ultimately leads to much worse suffering for everyone involved or other types of abuses of soft power, using levers of control internationally to try and create an unfortunate situation for these states.
But furthermore, we think that sanctions are effective.
The use of sanctions impacts all levels of the country.
You have decision-makers who have a lack for who lack for the quality of life that they once had as those that are in charge, industry is harmed because it is impossible to do business abroad.
It is very difficult to get in certain resources that you need to produce your goods or certain types of products, it's difficult to bring them into the country because there are often embargoes involved in sanctions, and there's also the fact that just average people are hurt dramatically.
They're hurt in their pocketbook, there's potential job layoffs, there's higher prices, there's food shortages, and we think it's just to target all people, as sanctions of the state as actions of the state are the actions of the collective, and there's a right to self-defense, which means you need to deter against these people.
We think that people and businesses ultimately put pressure on the decision-makers in order to gain back their quality of life.
When they're the ones that are hurting, they feel an investment to act, to change how their decision-makers are behaving.
And if the decision-makers decide not to change, they ultimately lose the support of the people, they lose the support oftentimes of the army, and they lose resources to actually pay for the coercive apparatus to ensure that they can maintain their power.
And once that coercive apparatus fails and the people turn against you, it is very hard for these regimes to stay in power.
And historically, we've seen sanction's a way to create change and also to bring people to the negotiating table.
So even if sanctions don't ultimately lead to a change itself, they they oftentimes lead to negotiations.
This is something that we saw recently in iran and the nuclear negotiations with the united states.
For these reasons, we should not end the use of economic sanctions.