We should not abolish the presidential pardon.
So we want to we want to just have one stipulation when it comes to the presidential pardon, which is that we think that the president should not be able to pardon himself.
We think that that, him or herself, we think that that creates a system that is rife for abuse, but outside of that potential, allowing the president to pardon other individuals outside of himself and potentially his cabinet, then we think that that is a totally legitimate thing to have.
So let's outline the reasons why we think the pardon, outside of that one instance, is something that we should definitely keep.
The first is that it brings flexibility into the law, in a system that generally doesn't have much flexibility to begin with, in a system in the status quo that has things like three strikes laws, mandatory minimums, that has certain certain requirements for sentencing and certain requirements for how a trial goes down, for when you have to try someone and when you don't.
We think that we generally have a fairly rigid system of justice, and what this means is that context does not often find its way into the system.
Certainly, in some instances, whether you had whether you had cause or whether you were acting maliciously, things like this, certain type of context can determine whether or not you'll be tried for one crime or a different crime, but it doesn't allow flexibility as far as sentencing.
It doesn't mean that if you're found guilty of committing a crime, if you had some sort of a good reason, that doesn't do anything for you, that doesn't allow you to get out from having committed that crime, even if it was some sort of just cause behind your actions.
And we think that having flexibility to allow an executive officer to pardon individuals in instances in which they had good cause even though they did something wrong is something that we need to have, some way of allowing people who act morally in many instances, but are punished for it to for them to be pardoned.
And we think that for that reason, it's a very important political tool.
It allows presidents to make political statements about how they believe the law should behave, how they believe we should change morally as a country, doing things like pardoning protesters, which is something that presidents have done over various periods of time, especially post hoc, pardoning people and saying that the statements, the rallies, the things they did were justified, they were moral and we should stand behind these people in these actions, those types of things are crucial.
And you also have pardons so that when the law changes, you can you can pardon individuals for crimes that are no longer considered crimes, for things that used to be crimes but are no longer crimes because the law has changed.
And we think that limitations exist to prevent serious abuse of the presidential pardon.
For example, you can only pardon someone for a federal crime.
So if someone commits a state crime, the president can't just swoop into the state justice system and make overarching decisions about whether or not someone's going to have to serve out a term.
When the state itself has has dictated that a crime has been committed, there are certainly gubernatorial pardons in many instances, and there are ways for people to to see clemency in cases when they've been convicted at the state level, but there are limitations to ensure that the presidential pardon is not overarching.
But the president is the executive of the federal government and because of that, we think that the president has an obligation to oversee justice and make sure that it's carried out in a just way, and the president has the ability to shape the political discourse by using the pardon system.
And we don't think that that's negative, because we don't think that you're undermining the entire justice system by what by letting one person off, it's saying that the justice system recognizes context and that, in certain instances, people should not be punished for their crimes.
For these reasons, we should not abolish the presidential pardon.