We should limit campaign finance.
So, the model that we want to go for in this round is that we're going to cap individual expenditures on all campaign donation expenditures, and this includes any sort of donation you make to an individual, any donation that you make to a party, or any donation that you make to some sort of a political party or political organization that's a third party advocate, like, for example, a super pac.
And we're also going to ban all spending on campaigns by corporations.
So, let's lay out the situation that we currently exist in.
So, in parts of the world that don't have stringent campaign finance laws, like the united states, elections can cost billions of dollars.
The last US election for president cost over four billion dollars on advertisements between public and private actors.
And what we think this means is that an immense amount of resources are going towards trying to elect a particular candidate, but these resources are being spent in a way that we think is rather wasteful.
If you think about it in a in a in a really concrete manner, the vast majority of people that are going to vote in any given election have made up their minds well in advance of the election itself.
So you're already just targeting people that are on the margins.
And when you're targeting those people in the margins, those are the people that you're actually spending this money on.
And when you think about it, you're spending thousands and thousands of dollars on each person in order to get their vote, and that money could otherwise be used for such important things.
There are there's no lack of things that could be improved in the united states, from our education system to the way we treat the opioid epidemic, to the way that we have our current infrastructure set up.
If we just use this money in a more appropriate way, we think that we could have many more advantages in our country.
But instead, we think it's wasted on a system that puts billions of dollars into elections each year.
And it's not just a problem that this money is relatively wasted, but this money creates a dependency and an obligation towards private actors.
It is hard to imagine an individual that could be given millions of dollars from any individual actor, or organization, or corporation in order for them to get their job, know that if they do not if they if that person chooses, they could easily give that money to someone to get them out of their job, it's hard to imagine any sort of individual that wouldn't feel some sort of obligation, at least some sort of and even if not like a strong explicit obligation, some sort of implicit bias towards these corporations.
And that's what we see in US government.
We see candidates that are more often in favor of corporations than are in favor for people.
We have people we have laws that are created in order to do things like remove financial regulations on on banks only ten years after the worst economic crisis the country has seen since the great depression.
We think that current politicians are in a system in which they are incentivized to cater to those that provide them money to win campaigns.
And if those people that are winning campaigns are that are giving that money are the wealthiest amongst us, are the corporations amongst us, if we don't have some sort of limit on what can be given, then all of a sudden the current economic inequality turns to political inequality, and we become an oligarchy rather than a democracy.
For these reasons, we should limit campaign finance.