We should not abolish capital punishment.
So before we get into the government's side of this case, we want to first explain our principle for why we think capital punishment is justified, and then we'll go into those arguments.
So we think that as a matter of principle, rights are inherently not something that are inherent or an an unalienable part of humanity, but rather rights are a social construct that relies on people having mutual respect for each other's rights.
We think that that is the key determinant in why we think that capital punishment is acceptable.
It's because certain criminals violate that mutual respect.
And in instances in which those criminals take that action, they kill somebody, they take someone else's life, they show that they themselves have no respect for rights on a principled basis, that they do not value human life, they do not think it is sacred, and they do not think that it cannot be taken away, even if it's just tacitly through taking away someone else's life.
Given that that is the case and they have made that acknowledgment and have acted upon that, we think that it gives up any claims that these individuals have to those rights.
And, in fact, in order to be proportional in your response, in order to carry out justice, we think it is, in fact, required that the state take capital punishment from time to time.
We are absolutely fine, on our side of the house, as well, with limits.
We're going to get into that a little bit.
But we think that there's no reason that we need to defend a status quo in which capital punishment is overused, but rather in instances of only instances in which you've taken someone else's life and only in instances where you have near certainty of the conviction should you be able to do this.
So on to the government's arguments.
The first thing they say is that this is just incredibly cruel and it basically matches standards of cruel and unusual punishment.
So, we think that, first, it was also incredibly cruel when the criminal took some sort of action against their victim that cost their victim this life.
But the difference between the criminal and the victim is that the victim did absolutely nothing to be deserving of this harm, whereas the criminal has opted into a system in which they themselves have tacitly agreed that this harm is an acceptable risk and an acceptable outcome for them.
And as far as whether this is cruel or unusual, firstly, we think that in terms of cruelty, it's debatable as to whether or not it's more cruel to simply end someone's life or to keep them in a jail for decades, potentially, in which they know they have no chance of seeing the outside, in which they have no chance of ever escaping their confinement, in which they're forced to labor in this jail for essentially their entire life, in poor conditions, and we don't think it's unusual, by any standard, given that the death penalty has existed for, well, basically, all of human history.
Then they go on to say that the death penalty, capital punishment, is racist and it's arbitrary, because the judge basically gets to decide whether you get this or a life sentence.
And, again, we think that any that reform of how capital punishment is enacted, whether its reform over the degree of certainty that is necessary before it can be given or whether or not the judge has discretion to use it, all these things can be corrected through proper legislation, but in order to actually have justice in instances of things like murder, we think it is necessary that capital punishment is undertaken.
Then the government says, " look, you could punish the innocent. "
And that's why we think that there should be certainty in order to act.
But, honestly, there are many instances of near certainty, especially in today's modern age with DNA testing and with modern forensics.
And the final argument the government side makes is, essentially, that this is just really expensive.
But this debate is not about the cost of the government or even the cost to the taxpayer, this is about a criminal that has so fundamentally violated our fabric of rights and our social fabric that justice can only be done in instances in which capital punishment is applied.
For these reasons, we should not abolish capital punishment.