We should not adopt teacher tenure reform.
So the first thing that we want to do before we get into any of the government's arguments is that we want to contradict the characterization of tenure in the status quo that the government presents.
They say that it's just gross misconduct that can get teachers fired once they have tenure but it's not as extreme as the government makes it out to be.
If the teacher is literally sitting there and not doing a single thing, that can be counted as gross misconduct and that can get a teacher removed.
We think that the school also has many other options to push a teacher out like starting to take their classes away or giving them more difficult coursework or or a number of other things that can make teachers want to leave even if they have tenure.
But disregarding that, we think that the vast majority of teachers that get into teaching want to do so because they want to work with kids, they want to help these kids.
Recognize that even if you're a teacher at a school for fifty or forty years, you're still not making a very high salary and your lifetime earning potential is just higher in other fields that someone with a college degree can get.
Like every teacher has to have this college degree and so there are other more lucrative fields for them to go into and so we think that these people are often not making purely financial decisions.
So the first argument they make is that removing tenure aligns incentives of teachers with society and the status where the status quo many don't have to care about the success of their students but for the reasons I just outlined we think that the people that ultimately go into education are those that are going to be most likely to care about their students and while it's certainly true everyone has had that teacher that just told them to open the book, read the lessons and didn't do much for them learning, we think that the vast majority of cases are cases in which teachers are actively trying to help their students and we think that the issue with getting rid of teacher tenure is that being a teacher especially in the united states, where we think this debate is mainly being talked about, teachers are dramatically undervalued by society.
There are so many disincentives to becoming a teacher in the status quo.
Aside from just the financial disincentives, there's also the fact that they have to work long hours, they have to they oftentimes have to take a second job because of the low salary.
We think that tenure is the way that you incentivize quality applicants to go into the field of education.
We think that if you remove tenure and you remove the stability which is one of the big arguments for going into education, then you're probably going to get even fewer people wanting to go into education which ultimately degrades the quality of the people that are teaching.
So maybe it's true that if you get rid of tenure you can fire a couple more teachers that aren't doing their job well but we think the trade-off of that is that teachers that would have been more qualified see the fact that they can now be fired if students don't perform which often times is not the fault of the teachers.
We've all been in school classes where kids just refuse to learn and that's not the teachers fault but they can now be fired because of having a handful of problem students on their hands and it suddenly becomes even more dangerous to go into teaching as a profession and we think ultimately the trade-off is you get fewer qualified teachers entering even if you can remove some people that shouldn't be there.
The final argument they make is that this improves the finances of schools and you're able to hire more effective teachers and that this fills the gaps in the education system.
But we think that for the reasons we have outlined above, you're going to ultimately get a net loss in qualified teachers because of the harms of going into education and because tenure is a is one of the big incentives for doing so.
We think that there's other ways that you can make teachers that have been in schools for a long time more effective such as giving them continual training, by bringing in aids, by allowing them to go to school at night to do other things, to learn online.
There's many resources to improve the quality of existing teachers.
So we don't think that this is ultimately outweighing the harms of removing tenure.
For these reasons, we should not adopt teacher tenure reform.