We should not increase immigration to the united states.
So just to quickly comment on the model.
One part of the model that the government team brings is removing country quotas.
This is fine.
We think the debate is about the total number of immigrants coming in which the government side says they would increase from about six hundred thousand people a year to two million people plus.
The first argument that the government makes and really the only argument as to why more immigrants is preferable than the status quo, is that it leads to economic growth.
That more people producing simply means more growth and that people that are immigrating tend to be go-getters.
They tend to be driven, trying to create a better life for themselves etcetera.
So a few responses to these points.
The first response is that just increasing the amount of people in the labor force does not increase the amount of jobs in the labor force.
There's really a set number of jobs based on the companies that are hiring and the availability of of capital to flow from companies to individuals and just because you throw two million more people a year into the united states doesn't mean that suddenly two million more people are going to have jobs in the united states, which means that we think there's actually going to be if you have a massive surge in immigration, a large likelihood that these immigrants become dependent on social welfare and other things that the united states provides for its citizens.
Which we think drains resources from people that are already in the country and drags down the overall market.
It also means that if you have two million more people fighting for the same jobs, a job market that already has stagnant wages, is likely going to become even more stagnant and wages may even go down because there's now significantly more competition for the jobs that exist than there existed before.
This assertion that immigrants are go-getters, look, whether or not immigrants are go-getters and want to succeed in their life doesn't change the fact that you need particular skills to be productive in the economy.
Just taking in anyone doesn't ensure that they will actually be able to be productive and contributing to the economy.
We think that more immigrants leads to a lag a dropdown in the overall well-being of the country.
It leads to more competition for jobs which decreases wages.
It leads to a drain of social welfare and we think that overall the united states, while it might be nice to take in immigrants, has a prior obligation to its citizens first.
So we think that the status quo has found a balance that is acceptable, that doesn't create this decrease in wages, that doesn't harm our social safety nets and so we think increasing it would be a bad idea.
The second argument that they make is about humanitarianism and say they say many people need like just need assistance.
He asserts he talks about syrians.
He talks about iraq iraqis.
Look, first, as I said your first job is to your citizens.
So this humanitarian argument doesn't outweigh the argument about harming your own citizens but second, you can take this argument into infinity.
There are so many people in the world that live worse lives than the people in the united states.
If we accepted literally every single one of them, the united states would not be able to make would not be able to sustain itself.
You need to have a cutoff point somewhere and if you're going to have a cutoff point you might as well choose one like the one we have now which we know doesn't lead to economic disruption.
The final argument that they make is that US is a country of immigrants and that immigrants bring a global perspective and they just kind of like tout immigration.
Look, this is not an argument for why we should take more immigrants.
This is an argument for why we should take some immigrants and as we've already explained we think that the current level of immigration has created a balance that doesn't disrupt the US economy and that this increase of over a hundred percent of our current quotas likely would harm americans.
For these reasons, we should not increase immigration to the united states.