We should not introduce carbon taxes.
So you just want to give an overview about what carbon taxes with the government side of this debate in theory is trying to do.
And in theory what carbon taxes are the point of that is to try and prevent global war.
That ultimately the belief is that carbon taxes will lead to businesses choosing not to expend so much carbon because it will cost them so much money and this will help protect our environment.
With that in mind we have a two pronged up.
We think that both of these are independent arguments that if we went on either of these arguments we win this debate.
So the first we're gonna go with is that we are doomed.
So we should defer to to business production.
So what does that mean what it what do I mean by we're doomed?
What I mean is that we're beyond the tipping point at which glaciers are going to melt at which natural disasters and rates of extreme weather are going to increase and we're at the point where many metro areas are simply going to be under water in a number of decades.
Because many metro areas unfortunately are built on coastal regions that are impacted by further flooding.
Given that we are beyond this tipping point and this is just scientifically the case that we are vastly beyond this tipping point we've simply put out too much carbon into the atmosphere to undo the fact that in the future these changes are going to come.
So what should we focus on with that in mind?
First we think economic expansion.
Why is this the case?
Well economic expansion ensures that most people the most people possible are economically situated to adapt to the changing world.
We don't think that the government is going to have the resources to ensure that all people are protected when these future natural disasters come.
When these future when future flooding comes mass migration comes because of that flooding.
And given that that's the case having a more robust economy means more people are self sufficient and able to adapt to these changes on their own.
We also think it provides enough assets to pay for that disaster relief so when you have a more robust economy you have more money floating around to pay for the inevitable damage that's going to come from natural disasters.
You can also do things like build huge infrastructure projects in the interior of continents that can help prepare for the coming for the coming raising of sea levels.
And this is likely going to produce more waste.
All these robust economic expansions require the use of carbon require the unfettered free market to work and so we think that given that we are doomed in the sense that the most fundamental changes are going to occur and we cannot stop them we should push for more for more economic expansion.
We also think that we should push for tech to reverse these changes.
So we should have a no holds bar system of development to try and figure out how to reverse the damage how to suck carbon and other greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere because at their current levels there's no way that we can prevent this future change.
Again a carbon tax hinders the freedom of businesses to act to try and develop these technologies.
If you don't think we're doomed we think that our second our second argument is you should do cap and trade instead because it's a more effective way of preventing global warming.
The money raised by a carbon tax isn't going to do all that much good if we're still flooding the environment with carbon and let's face it businesses are going to pay and are willing to pay to go over the tax especially because most businesses are owned by corporate conglomerates that can afford to pay these type of fees.
Cap and trade sets a maximum amount that businesses are able to expend total within the market and this means that you're actually more likely to achieve the goal of preventing global warming cause you actually set a cap on how much carbon and how much greenhouse gases can be emitted by your common.
This also means that businesses who choose to sell their carbon credits will be more able to use that money to convert their activity to clean technology and this means that as a whole the market is building up the green business sector while phasing out carbon.
We think that that is a more robust way of fighting global warming and that if you think that we have a chance moving forward this is a preferable way of addressing those challenges than a carbon tax.
Regardless of whether or not you think that there's a chance that we can fight global warming we do not think carbon taxes are the way to do so and for these reasons we should not introduce carbon taxes.