We should not end censorship.
In this round, we think it's important to recognize that context matters and that when we're talking about ending censorship outright, when we're allowing people to say whatever they want in whatever setting they choose to do so, that this could be incredibly problematic for a few reasons.
Firstly, we think it's important to have censorship in the cases of obscenity.
Now, in public spheres, we think it's important that we that we legislate with the full public in mind.
And while many people do not mind nudity, many people do not mind vulgarity in their private lives, that when we're looking at public settings, whether it be a publicly publicly open space, like a movie theater or a park, or whether it just be in everyone's day-to-day interactions, there are certain things that we think should be kept out of the public sphere.
For example, many children interact in these public spheres, and it's important that parents have the ability to keep their children safe from being exposed to things that may be obscene.
Children are incredibly impressionable and can be heavily impacted by things like nudity and vulgarity at a young age.
And more importantly, we just think it's important that parents don't need to go out in public fearing that their children are going to be exposed to these things.
Children and parents should have the ability to go into public and to have a safe space for them.
And, yes, while people can still say things that parents may not agree with, the fact that there's a fact that certain things are generally regarded to be somewhat obscene.
Things like nudity are things that are inside of that expectation of things that should be excluded from the public sphere.
And while this certainly is dependent on social mores, the fact that those social mores are fluid doesn't mean that they don't exist, and it doesn't mean that we shouldn't censor them.
Secondly, we think it's incredibly important to censor hate.
Hate speech is one of the most fundamental things that can undermine someone's feeling of safety and security, not just in the public sphere but in the private sphere.
If we allow hate speech to go unchecked, if people can speak against individuals simply because of the color of their skin, because of their religion, because of certain affiliations they have, this makes for a situation in a society in which people feel fundamentally unsafe.
We think that banning hate speech isn't just about making sure that people feel safe though.
It's also about sending a signal as a society and a signal about a government that certain ideas, these types of ideas that hate on certain groups of people because of inalienable characteristics that they have, it's saying that those ideas are unwelcome, that they aren't valid and they aren't even things that should be open for discussion.
And this is a crucial this is a crucial impact that the government can have.
Because not only are you sending the signal to those that currently hate, but you're also sending the signal to those that are generations down the line, that they see that the government is saying that this is something that is wholly unacceptable and it's something that they should not pursue intellectually or in their private lives.
Context determines whether or not censorship is just.
There are certainly instances in which censorship is unfair.
There are certainly instances in which censorship is being used to maintain power rather than to protect the people within a society.
But only context can reveal whether it's one instance or the other, and ending censorship outright does a disservice to those important contexts that we discussed and more in which censorship is required in order to feel for people to feel safe, to interact in public, and to ensure bad ideals do not seep into our societies.
For these reasons, we should not end censorship.