We should not fight for quebecan independence.
In this round, we're gonna make a few arguments about why we think fighting for quebecan independence would set a bad precedent, why we think that it would be harmful to canada writ large, and why it would be harmful to larger states.
So, we think that independence movements are, at time, warranted.
There are certainly instances in which a population within a country is being abused by the leadership of that country, in which there are harms that are being apparently and readily accrued to them in a discriminatory manner and that in these instances, we think that independence movements are certainly warranted.
People should not be able to live under a state that is directly targeting and abusing them.
But when we look at the instance of quebecan independence, this isn't the case.
People in the quebecan provinces province are respected.
They're guaranteed full human rights.
They're guaranteed full rights as a canadian citizen, and they're able to practice their culture, essentially, as they see fit.
They're just part of the larger, united canadian country.
And so we think that, ultimately, quebecan independence only does two things.
First, it drains resources on the rest of the nation, and we think that that is fundamentally unjust given that much of the infrastructure that exists in quebec, lots of the spending from national from the national canadian government has been put through quebec.
We think that there are immense resources and interrelations between quebec and the rest of the province that it benefitted quebec to a great degree, and so removing quebec from canada altogether, we think is only going to serve to harm to those that have contributed to quebec the most.
And we think that that is fundamentally unjust and sets a bad precedent in which resource-rich areas of of a state can claim that they have a distinct culture and then pull out of that state and form their own state in order to profit off of that, but we think that that is also unjust.
And finally, we think that if you allow people to have independence movements at every at every turn when there aren't serious justifications for it, you undermine the respect for the government overall.
If if independence movements are something that we endorse in most instances and not in those rare instances, it means that the state apparatus does not have respect, and it means that the state is unable to appear legitimate to its people.
It's not able to fully to fully guarantee the protections of its people or fulfill its job when it's constantly fighting for its own legitimacy, and because of that, we think that it sets a bad precedent.
And finally, it's important to recognize that many people in quebec do not want independence.
Many people in quebec want to be part of canada.
And it's not like this is a a seventy five to thirty five split, it's more of a fifty-fifty split.
These are instances in which almost as many people that want to be in that want to be an independent state do not want to be.
And we think, in this instance, we'd rather maintain the status quo, a status quo that we know guarantees protections and rights for all people in the quebecan province, that allows that culture to prosper, rather than take the risk of allowing it to form a separate country, or maybe those that are currently want to be canadian are discriminated against or marginalized in a number of ways.
For these reasons, we should not fight for quebecan independence.