We should not cancel pride parades.
We think that pride parades are a great expression of the unity of the LGBT community and their allies.
It's a way for these groups that have for decades and for centuries been forced to hide in obscurity to not be able to come together and organize, to not be able to be politically active.
It gives the opportunity for those decades and centuries of abuse to be thrown off and for these people to put themselves out there, form communities, and make a political statement that their lives matter and that they deserve to be heard and deserve to be recognized.
So we think that pride parades are an immensely good thing for these communities and for the world more broadly and for these reasons we should not cancel them.
So firstly why are why are these parades so important to the LGBT community?
Well these are huge gatherings for these communities in more way than just size.
It's this is especially important because people that are in communities that are often isolated or very conservative are often one of the only people that are out within their communities which means they have no one to go to for support.
They have no one to go to that understands their struggle in a deep way and can empathize with them and these types of large scale gatherings, these types of pride parades, are an opportunity for them to reach out to other people like them and have shared experiences with them.
Allows people to feel empowered and to build a community with those even if they're coming from an urban area where there are many LGBT people who are out it's still a good opportunity to be able to find those people and to come together.
It also makes people feel like they don't have to hide.
And this is especially true of people who are closeted.
It makes them more comfortable with who they are even if they don't want to come out.
The fact that they're able to see that there are so many people that are walking the streets that are either allies that support the way they are and the way that they were born, or other people who are just like them, who are proud of who they are, who are proud to be gay, and are willing to be out there and share that fact about them.
This means that if you're closeted you're much more likely to have some sort of avenue of expression, some sort of way to see yourself out in the world.
Or it also makes you more comfortable with coming out and maybe this isn't always a situation that people maybe people shouldn't always come out but in situations where people are on the fence and they're able to express themselves we think that that's generally good and the empowerment to do that is positive.
These parades are also an opportunity to build a culture around being LGBTQ.
It's an opportunity to create that culture and we think that culture thrives in these parades.
This group deserves to have a celebration of their lives mattering and for that reason we think pride parades are great.
The other reason that this is good is for normalization.
Marching and seeing large groups of gay and gay and transgender people in public along with their allies serves as a way to normalize that that form of existence.
It it serves as a way to show people that these people are just like you.
Contact theory would say that when these people go out in public, when they march, when they show who they are, when they interact with other people on the street, those people, even if they're bigoted, are more likely to see them as humans rather than as a sin or something that they need to fight against and we think that this is generally good because you have more broad acceptance for these communities.
These communities have had to hide who they are for centuries.
These communities have been attacked through both legal and extralegal mechanisms for centuries.
We think that pride parades give an opportunity to both bolster these communities internally and to show off for the world around them that it is okay to be gay, it is okay to be who you are, and to build more acceptance with people who are not already allies of these communities broadly.
For these reasons we should not cancel pride parades.