We should not abolish bitcoins.
So, despite the fact that it is, from a practical standpoint, probably impossible to actually abolish bitcoin, given that it's incredibly difficult to track, it's decentralized, it's already used on many illicit platforms that are themselves hard to track and shut down, disregarding that fact, we think there are still positive reasons why bitcoin should not be abolished.
One thing that we want to point out as a benefit, before we get into the government side, is that there is an immense amount of privacy that comes with using bitcoin that doesn't exist with any other form of exchange.
Bitcoin is able to be decentralized as well, so that it's an incredibly because it's so decentralized, it makes it difficult for one individual to accumulate a ton of bitcoin and to have like a a massive reserve of it.
It makes it incredibly difficult for one government or one private entity to cause fluctuations in bitcoin.
It makes it easier to do transactions all across the world.
There are a number of benefits to bitcoin and to cryptocurrency, in general, that are derived from the blockchain.
So, first, let's get to the government's arguments now.
The first argument the government side makes is that there's no real intrinsic value to bitcoin.
So, two responses to this.
First, all money is fiat money.
There's no real intrinsic value to gold, or at least not the not it there is no so there's not so much intrinsic value to gold that that it is actually worth the like hundreds of dollars per pound that it currently gets, but more importantly, most currencies are not backed up by any sort of firm backing.
It's just the government promising.
And what that really amounts to is that people have agreed that the money has value.
That is how our economy has run for hundreds of years now.
No fiat currency is the world that we live in.
Given that that is the case, many people have agreed that bitcoin has value.
Many people have invested a lot of money in bitcoin, and so we think that it is that, by definition, it is no different than any other fiat currency.
The other arguments that follow are that it's just really volatile, and investors don't really understand it.
So, both of these things would describe bonds that are or stocks that are sold on the stock market.
Many stocks are incredibly volatile and if you invest in things like micro-stocks, or you do a lot of microtransactions, or you have large varieties of investments that fluctuate with the overall stock market, again, these things are very volatile, and the average investor simply doesn't understand the company that they're investing in.
So, all these descriptors basically match any other investment that someone is making, and given that we don't ban things like mutual bonds and we don't ban things like private stocks, we see no reason why we should ban bitcoin.
Also, recognize that given that there are billions of dollars invested in bitcoin, if somehow the government could fiat that bitcoin is suddenly illegal and has no value, that would be a massive economic hit to many people and would probably not be good for the economy overall.
The final thing that they say under this point is that people essentially bet on it working out.
But the truth is that there are a number of reasons to believe that bitcoin will hold its value.
While bitcoin has fluctuated dramatically over some stretches of time, the general trend on bitcoin has been one of growth.
And if you look at where it's come in the last fifteen years, it has grown tremendously not just in value, but also in the spaces that you're able to spend it, which gets us to the practical harms.
The government says that, essentially, bitcoin enables crime and it makes it harder to track.
But recognize that the that the dark web and silk road, specifically, existed before bitcoin and that VPNs and IP masking, as well as cash interactions, also make it incredibly difficult to track this crime.
As it stands, bitcoin, though, can be spent legitimately, it has a lot of money invested in it and, generally, is no different than any other fiat currency or even a stock or bond.
Given these reasons, we should not abolish bitcoins.