We should not abolish the american jobs act.
In this round were gonna go through and respond to be arguments that the government team makes in proposal for abolishing the american jobs act.
So let's go down one by one.
The first argument that the government side makes is about opportunity cost.
They say that money and federal spending is all fungible, and they talk about how the government at the time of the american jobs act being proposed was able to borrow at zero percent interest rate and that when this is the case, instead of doing what the american jobs act proposed, we should just invest in infrastructure.
But we think that at the very beginning the government side is offering a false dichotomy.
The american jobs act did include significant amounts of money for infrastructure spending.
Fifty billion dollars of the american jobs act proposal was to go towards infrastructure spending.
And at the time of the jobs act the recovery required spending in many facets of the economy.
Remember, at the time that this was proposed we are in the midst of a recession.
Not just infrastructure spending was going to bring up all of the different industries that were affected.
When you had unemployment rates of ten to twelve percent, when you add all sectors being impacted by by the recession, we don't think that infrastructure spending alone is a sufficient response to getting people back to work.
They say jobs will come about anyway and that infrastructure has long term returns.
This is all true, that jobs will eventually return, that infrastructure does have long run returns, all true.
But it doesn't account for the fact that while you're waiting for these jobs to magically come about and for the recession to magically, because of market forces, start to lean itself, this has major impacts on the people that are living day to day without jobs, without stable income, without the ability to feed their family.
This was an urgent crisis that needed to be responded to in all sectors of the economy and the jobs act was the best and most comprehensive proposal that recognized that obligation from the government.
They said the other opportunity cost and trade off is one in political will, and and he gives the example of limited political will that obama had, and if it had passed there wouldn't have been sufficient political will for other things that were controversial like healthcare.
Well, we think that we think that because these are in dramatically different parts of the economy, when one has to do with jobs, the other has to do with health care, that as far as public sentiment and public political will, we don't think these two things actually overlap to a significant degree.
But the other thing that we would argue is that democrats were determined the pass healthcare.
So if we're talking just about the proposal that the government side brings up, we don't actually think that healthcare would have been the major sticking point.
Maybe you would have trade offs in the other sectors but we think that when you're talking about the impact of the jobs act and when you're talking about what people prioritize from the government, a healthy economy where people are employed and people are able to live their best lives is one of the top priorities and top obligations that the government has.
So even if there is some sort of political trade off we think that that argument can really be applied to anything.
There's always a political trade-off.
There's always a financial trade off.
But when you're talking about the order of obligations that the government has, the obligations to ensure a healthy and adjusted economy for your citizens is right at the top of the list and therefore even if there is a trade off with other options, with other things that the government could be doing, we don't think that those obligations will ever outweigh the obligation that the american jobs act was was addressing.
They say finally that it feeds into the the narrative of reckless spending and that this led to republicans winning in the mid terms in twenty in twenty ten and that in twenty twelve there were also big gains that put the present at risk.
We think that in times of a recession the president's obligation is not to its party, it's not to his ability to win reelection, it's to the american people.
This was a bill that helped the american people.
That put money and jobs in the economy and at the end of the day would have been helpful in bringing all sectors back to a stage of recovery.
And for these reasons we should not abolish the american jobs act.