We should abolish marriage.
So a few clarifications we want to set up for this debate: firstly, we would say that when we're going to abolish marriage we would abolish state recognized marriage.
So religious marriage ceremonies would still be allowed to happen but the state would have no marriage er no marriage contracts that are enforced by the state and so any sort of benefits that exist currently due to marriage.
For example, tax benefits associated with marriage, we would transition those types of benefits into other different types of incentives.
For example, current incentives that exist for having children, for home ownership, we think that you could transition the the savings from marriage benefits to those types of programs instead.
Ok so, first off we would say that marriage itself is an outdated institution that is based on problematic ideals.
So when marriage was first come up with, when marriage was first instituted, firstly it was an entirely religious act.
It was not something that was done through the state, it was not something that was done through any sort of country or non secular actor, but rather it was done by local community churches and local community religious institutions and it was done as a religious act.
Because of this we think that it is inherently improper for the state to take over giving out marriages and performing marriage ceremonies for people because we think that it firstly it dilutes this religious act, and makes those types of religious commitments worse off, but it also creates an entanglement between church and state that we think is unacceptable in develop societies.
Furthermore, marriage itself is a concept we think is incredibly patriarchal and shouldn't be endorsed by the state.
Marriage, in a sense, was created so that women would be sold to their husbands and and a family would get some sort of dowry for that woman.
We think that this idea, this old idea of selling off a woman to a man so that the man, the husband, can now own the wife, we think that these are just incredibly problematic notions and the entire ceremony around marriage, the entire ideal surrounding marriage, is deeply based on these old patriarchal notions that we don't think should be perpetuated through society, especially through the state.
When the state has marriage as opposed to just religious institutions we think it signals that marriage is a normal thing that people should seek out to do rather than if it is only a religious ceremony we think only certain groups of people that have a particularly strong tie to be institution of marriage would carry it out.
And this is important because as we can see in our in our society in the status quo, marriage is a failing institution.
More marriages end in divorce than in any other outcome and we think that this is a sign that marriage is something that most people are not suited for.
Let's be frank, most people change in dramatic ways over the course of their life, especially during a marriage.
Sometimes people's life trajectories are going in different ways, sometimes people personalities changed dramatically, and sometimes the partner that you've had for forty years isn't the same partner you want to be with for the rest of your life.
We think that when marriage is institutionalized within the state, it incentivizes people to stay in bad relationships longer, to try and make their marriage worse, and to force themselves into situations that they are not entirely comfortable with.
When the state no longer recognizes marriages, when the state no longer incentivizes marriages, we think fewer people are likely to opt into that system that system as it exists.
And we think more likely people are going to choose to be flexible in their relationships.
People are still going to want to have long term partners, people are still going to raise children with those partners, but when a relationship is falling apart, when it no longer provides utility for the people that are involved in that relationship, we don't think that people should feel social pressure to stay in that relationship.
It harms their health, it harms their personal well being, and it harms their emotional well being.
And we think that by abolishing marriage, by abolishing state marriage, you undo those incredibly dramatic harms.
And for these reasons we should abolish marriage.