We should not introduce goal-line technology.
We think it's important to note at the very start of this debate that whether or not goal-line technology is introduced, this is likely to be a fairly marginal thing within the game of soccer.
For the vast majority of goals that are scored or not scored it is incredibly clear whether or not the bull the ball made it past the broke the field of play within the goal.
So we think that in almost all situations goal-line technology is not going to be used but we think that there are benefits to the game in not having it present at all.
The first argument that the government side makes is that this is important for the spirit of game and that fairness is necessary to maximize the game but as I just stated, this is largely not an issue because most goals are clear cut.
If you look at almost almost every soccer game you watch is not going to have an instance in which any sort of review or replay is necessary because most of the time either the goalie saves the ball or the ball is able to make it into the goal.
It's just it's an incredibly obvious thing because these plays happen so fast, because people are so precise in scoring their goals.
So we just don't think that people in the status quo feel this lack of fairness because of a lack of goal-line technology.
The next argument they make though is that this is necessary for fans to have faith in the game.
So first see above about why this is not an issue in the status quo.
The second thing though is that if people don't have faith in the referees, for example, and if refs are actually corrupt, there's just a number of other ways for them to be successful in being corrupt that have nothing to do with goal-line technology.
It's things like calling it off side when right before a goal is about to be scored when it wasn't really off side.
It's like giving a red card or a yellow card erroneously on a questionable play and these are things that technology is not going to do a sufficient job of reviewing or of checking.
But one thing that we actually think is a positive of referees occasionally messing up, is that fans really rally around those types of things and you form stronger fan communities.
While maybe it may cost your favorite team a game or two in the standings, in the long run having memories to look back on as a fan base, things that bring people together are incredibly important.
Look at a game look at a team like the cubs in baseball for example, they have one of the strongest fan bases in baseball not because their team is immensely successful but rather because they have been so unsuccessful for so long and they can point to so many moments in their history where they feel like they were screwed over, where they feel like the outcome wasn't fair and they rally around those memories and it creates a stronger fan base which is ultimately good for the teams, it's good for the game, it brings in more revenue, and it's better for the fans.
The third argument they make under this is that the speed of the game is better.
We think that it's actually better on our side because you're just less likely to have reviews which means the game pace continues to go on and that people don't have to pause to check in these kind of marginal cases.
The second argument they make is that this is better for the refs and that goal-line technology doesn't make refs obsolete but it helps in gray areas.
The first argument we would say is that we think that once you start making this transition into technological refereeing, this creates a slippery slope in which refs start to get phased out in other ways.
If you accept goal-line technology then maybe you accept technology that automatically reviews offside calls or maybe you accept technology through things like AI and machine learning that can tell whether or not a slide was deserving of a red card or not and we think it's unfair to the refs to start putting them in that position.
But it also put it also puts past calls into judgment because instituting this says there's a problem in the status quo that needs to be fixed which starts to create an entire referendum on the history of the game which we think is problematic.
They say good reps have evidence and integrity to show when a play is close but again we don't think this is an issue of the status quo.
Finally, they say this is a check on bad refs the argument we made already in response to this.
For these reasons, we should not introduce goal-line technology.