We should not prohibit slum tourism.
There are two main reasons why we think that slum tourism is a net positive and therefore should not be prohibited, people should be allowed to take part in slum tourism.
The first is because it provides more income for these slum areas, where people otherwise wouldn't have this income, and second, it's about how we bridge the empathy gap that currently exists between people from privileged and underprivileged backgrounds.
All right.
So, firstly, on income for the area.
Recognize that tourism as an industry can be quite large, can be the main financial function of many states in and of themselves, and can be a real way of boosting revenue in the slums.
Tourism is one of those fields in which there are many businesses, many different types of job opportunities, that can be created that cater to people that have additional money, much more money than the average person within this area, and this means that you can generate real, new revenue and bring that revenue in from outside sources and create more net money within the same market structure that is the slum areas.
This new flow of revenue into this area brings money in there that otherwise never would have been there.
There's no way to kind of outsource products from these areas to bring real real leverage and real assets into these areas, into the slum areas, because even if you have, say, a factory or something like that in which you can export goods to people from other nations and from other areas of the country that don't bring money into the slum, this doesn't mean that that money is going directly into the market, into the economic system of the slum.
It means it's likely going into the pocket of some owner who is outside of that whole system.
This income allows for gradual change in these areas and the accruement of wealth to try and improve the situation for people that live in these areas.
Yes, it may seem problematic that people are making money off the fact that they're poor and that they are in a bad area for the entertainment of others, but we don't think that's actually what this looks like.
And even if it is the case, we think it's worth the long we think it's worth those short-term harms for the long-term accrual of more more assets and more revenue.
All right.
So, on the empathy gap: in the status quo, we think there is a problem where people from privileged backgrounds look to people in these areas, in slums, as an other, as an outside group that, while they recognize intellectually as human, they don't empathize with those people like we would empathize with our other fellow human beings, people that are near us.
This is something that is known as contact theory, and contact theory says that when you are able to come into contact with other people and to understand them and see them close up and personally, to be able to interact with them like you would any other person, you start to understand that these people are more than just the stereotype that you have in your mind, but are full-fledged human beings.
Once you do that, and once you see the struggles, that these people live in and exposure to struggles that many people do not even know exists, we think that people are much more likely to empathize with these people, and that empathy can be turned into real political action.
Empathy that can be created from slum tourism can be used to advocate , for example, within your own political system to give more aid to these areas.
If you're someone that's going from an outside country to visit these areas, it can make you a stronger advocate for people within your own community to learn that these struggles exist in exist broadly within society, and not just in the areas that you're touring.
It can make you more more aware of the poverty that exists in our society and more willing to fight that poverty.
Because people that come from privileged backgrounds very rarely have to come face to face with poverty and when they do, they very rarely look it in the eye and have a conversation with it, talk with it, and walk in its shoes for any period of time.
When people learn to do that and when people do that through slum tourism, we think you get more advocacy and, at the very least, you put more money in the pockets of people in these areas to improve their situation.
For these reasons, we should not prohibit slum tourism.