Abstinence-only sex education should be mandatory.
We're gonna present two arguments as to why we think that abstinence-only sex education is the best form of sex education within school systems.
The first is about parental choice, and the second is about how we think that other forms of sex ed increase the amount of sexual pressure that people experience, especially in young adult young adulthood.
All right, so on parental choice: we think that sexual education is an incredibly personal decision to make as far as how parents would like to educate their child about sex.
This is subject to many moral and religious beliefs that we simply think the state is not adequately able to account for in other forms of sexual education.
We think that parents understand both their child's sentiments and ideas of how that child relates to the world and relates to their own sexuality and have a better idea of how they want to rear their child.
We would say that parents earn the right to make this decision about how their child is going to grow up, about how that child is going to mature and become a sexual individual and learn about their sexual side, because they've taken on the responsibility, they've accepted the responsibility for that child's well-being and in doing so, we think they've attained at least a modicum of rights as to decide how that child is going to be reared, especially when abstinence sex education does not directly cause more harm to the child.
We would say that abstinence-only sex ed allows parents to have much more leeway in how far they want their children to go.
We think that abstinence-only sex education can make children aware of the risks of pregnancy, make them aware of sexually transmitted diseases, make them aware of the risk of unwanted pregnancy, all of these things, while ensuring them that if they do not have sex, if they do not choose to undertake these activities, that they will be safe.
If they want to know more, firstly, their parents are able to be a source of information for them.
But when there's a disconnect between child and parent, there are alternative resources that are widely available, through the internet, that allow children to learn about these things in reasonable ways.
This isn't two thousand or two thousand ten, this is a day a time in our society when there are an immense amount of good resources available to people to learn about how to have safe sex, but we do not think that it is the responsibility of the state to make that decision for parents and to make that decision about all people's children.
So secondly, why do we think there's an increase in sexual pressure?
We would say that many people in high school and in early adulthood still feel very squeamish about sex.
They they don't they're incredibly young and immature as far as their sexual activity, their sexual appetite, and this brings sex right into the classroom.
It brings people into a setting to learn about sex and to learn about sexuality in an area where we think they are least likely to be comfortable, that is, within the classroom.
We think that this, for many people, brings a lower level of maturity to the discussion in order to hide the fact that they're uncomfortable with what's being discussed.
And we think people are more likely to be distracted, and people are more likely to take away bad information when they learn about it in an environment where they do not feel comfortable discussing these types of things.
We think there's already an immense amount of pressure to have sex amongst young people in our society today.
We think that sexual education makes that more pronounced, while at the same time our sexual education that isn't abstinence-only sex education makes that more pronounced, be as it doesn't just engage you on the risks of sex, but how to actually have sex in a safe way, how to have sex, and what sexual activity can be like, which we think breeds more tension, more sexual pressure within the classroom.
Because parents should have a right to make this decision about how their child will grow up and because we think the school setting is a bad one to learn about safe sex, abstinence-only sex education should be mandatory.