Opt socialism.
So in this debate we're going to have three broad topics.
We're going to talk about just governance, fairness, and why the current system is simply unsustainable.
But first we're going to lay out a model as to what we think this looks like because socialism is a fairly broad term and we think it needs to be defined.
So firstly we would say that we would have a system of substantially substantial redistribution of wealth via high taxation on the very rich and redistribution of this wealth through welfare programs potentially a universal basic income as well as other systems that ensure that this income can be redistributed to the masses.
Secondly, we would say public ownership of all utilities and mass goods.
So this includes everything that ranges from electricity, plumbing, sewage, these types of things all the way to things like internet connection and broadband access, we wouldn't share that all of these things are publicly owned, so things that are necessities for people to live standard of living that is acceptable for a modern time.
We would say all those businesses would be publicly owned.
And thirdly, we would say for all the rest of free market enterprise, this market would be heavily regulated to ensure both worker protection and to ensure that prices align with the actual value of good.
So for example, in the current pharmaceutical industry goods are often vastly overpriced compared to their production costs.
We would ensure that regulation keeps those prices down.
Ok.
So firstly on just governance.
We would say that the state is essentially a course of actor insofar as people are fairly unable to consent to the state.
You can sort of consent through voting and through other systems, but you don't really have a choice over whether or not you're going to be a part of a state.
And for the vast majority of people they're just kind of stuck in the state that they're born into.
And given that this is the case, we think the only way that that state can be fair is is is to ensure that it is representative of all people.
We think the current system doesn't do this.
We think the current system is mostly favored towards the richest people in society and we think that the current system also forces people to work in a labor system in which they have no choice, for the most part, about whether or not they want to be part of that labor system and their decisions are ultimately motivated by the need for survival.
We don't think that people should be coerced into the labor system in this way and we think that socialism provides a system of governance and a system of economics that is most broadly beneficial to the most people.
Secondly, on fairness.
We think that in the status quo labor is improperly valued.
A worker at a mcdonald's can make as little as seven dollars an hour in the united states, and the CEO of mcdonald's will be making billions of dollars a year and we simply don't think that the disparity in the amount of work and training is equivalent to that actual distribution of labor costs or to that distribution of income.
We simply think that the current system does not value traditional labor in the way that it should and we think a socialist system could make up for this by regulating income levels by ensuring public public ownership of businesses in which large amounts of people are employed etcetera.
We think that all people deserve a fair standard of living no matter where they were born and no matter what system or economic class they're born into, and we think socialism can allow for that.
And finally, we think the current system is simply doomed.
While free market capitalism was effective during the industrial revolution in a time when job growth was exceeding or at least close to the population growth of any given state, this simply isn't the case anymore.
In the status quo, automation is not creating new jobs while at the same time stripping jobs from a large number of individuals and in the near future job growth is not going to out pace population growth and is in fact going to decline steadily.
Given that this is the case, we think capitalism is the normal system won't work when there aren't enough consumers to consume the vast amount of increase of productivity, the increase of goods.
We think that the current system is fundamentally unbalanced and we think that a socialist system can ensure that consumers can continue to consume and that the vast majority of individuals who are not amongst the wealthiest in our society are able to have a substantial and a positive standard of living.
And for these reasons we should adopt socialism.