We should not abandon the presidential system.
So we think that in this debate round we're mostly talking about countries like the united states, countries that have established long term democracies that are actually legitimate thing and we're looking at systems of legitimate western democracies rather than faux democracies.
There's a difference we think that the transitions there don't have as meaningful of an impact and we think that it's kind of a distinct debate.
So within that realm, talking mostly about established western democracies that have a presidential system like the united states, let's talk about a couple of key points that go in favor of presidential system.
First we think there's an importance of having a strong executive.
So one benefit of the presidential system is that even if you have a parliamentary system or some other system of democratic government in which you have in which you have a legislative body choosing the executive which is what you have the parliamentary system, we think that a benefit of the presidential system is given that there is going to be someone in government that has higher roles, has higher authority, more power than than other legislatures we think that that person should be voted on by the populace as a whole.
We think it's preferable to have popular input for this individual rather than it just be the person that is highest-ranking in in the political party that's in charge at that time and that's one other benefit is that while the presidential system does certainly have instances in which the president and the legislative body align, there's often many instances in which that's not the case and it provides a counterbalance to the legislative branch.
It provides a check on the branch to ensure that you can't you can't pass legislation that's so far in one direction on the political spectrum or the other because you have that counter balancing force in the executive who doesn't have to sign a bill, who doesn't have to ratify or enact the actual legislation that you pass.
And we think this counterbalance allows for moderation and allows for governance that more generally corresponds with what people actually believe.
And we think the executive also consolidates decision making in times of panic, in times of war, things like that.
We think it's preferable to have a strong elected executive especially when those roles are laid when those particular roles are laid out.
Having someone with military experience or having someone with international relations experience.
Someone that you know is going to be able to represent your country abroad.
These are benefits of allowing the direct election of the president of the executive rather than having something with a parliamentary system in which the executive is selected by the party that's in charge.
We also think there would just be massive difficulties in the transition.
We think there's little to no democratic will in countries that currently have a presidential system to make that change which we think in and of itself should be exclusionary of adopting this policy because it would be undemocratic.
It would be unpopular amongst the people.
But we also think there's a level of familiarity and comfort with the current system, knowing how the how the system works, knowing where the the keys of power are if you will, knowing what different roles do and and what your vote actually impacts, what you're actually voting on.
These are important because having knowledge of this system, having an understanding and participation in the system generally is necessary to have a legitimized government.
And finally this would probably require major constitutional overhaul that we think is just highly unrealistic.
Getting constitutional amendments past or making such a sweeping change like entirely removing and a branch of government say from the US constitution we think that this is just immensely unrealistic and is something that is never going to be agreed upon by both parties, is not going to be democratically popular, and removes an important important benefits of the presidential system.
For these reasons we should not abandon the presidential system.