The use of AI should be abandoned.
So we're not going to make this into a policy round.
We just think the world would be preferable if all firms, all companies, all governments, all organizations that were currently working on artificial intelligence, and and specifically artificial intelligence that's based on learning things on its own, it's not fed information but rather it's given a world of information to learn from and it finds patterns in them, this type of artificial intelligence should be outright abandoned.
We think there's immense dangerous potential, and that's what this speech is going to be about.
AI presents a threat in the fact that it's very difficult to predict exactly what its potential is.
Artificial intelligence is currently developing in a way that it can learn freely through association, it builds on past knowledge, it's able to build systems that are smarter than it, based on its reference point of information.
These are things that lead to exponential growth.
And generally the trend of technology, the growth of technology, has been an exponential trend, which means that in this field, like it has been for many technological fields, it's very likely that the technology is going to far outpace regulation or any sort of check on potential threats that arise.
Look at the internet.
Look at the immense black underground black market that's been able to arise due to the internet, and it's something that, yes, there's policing for, but it's not something that is very well policed.
It's something that's still grown exponentially.
The internet itself is something where the laws and regulations around it are still being put together a decade or more after its widespread adoption, and for and and this is just something that's baffling in in retrospect.
But for AI, this is what we're facing now.
In a number of years, a few years, AI is going to be at a level that is likely going to be able to perform things that otherwise were not possible previously in human history.
But there's no regulatory board set up to oversee this growth, and there's no regulatory board set up right now that allows you to actually govern it.
Only one AI needs to reach this level of sophistication, this level of self-awareness, this level of cognizance, and there are thousands of businesses and universities working on developing this technology.
We think given all of that, it's incredibly likely that a self-aware AI becomes comes into existence, one that is smarter than humans and can build systems that are even smarter than itself.
This is going to come into existence, maybe not in the next five years, maybe not in the next ten, but certainly within our lifetime.
We think this poses an immense risk in two areas: first, to human life.
We think that this artificial intelligence could come into exist and think that it's making a decision on on behalf of all people dictates that eventually humans are just bad for the world overall, that we create a society in which we cause harm to ourselves and that we're simply not worth it, and that we're horribly inefficient beings, all these types of things which are true fundamentally, but maybe not something that we want to accept as a society or we think dictates our erasure.
But if you have an artificial intelligence that is smart enough and is able to access the internet, it could simply end human life.
It could cause a nuclear holocaust, and that would be the end of the day.
But it's not just this idea, like this doomsday scenario of AI but there's also, if AI goes well, there's still huge problems, like increased class disparity and a lack of jobs that can be taken over by smart robots and robots that use artificial intelligence.
The mechanization of the world that is already happening is only going to increase with AI.
We think this risks a mass economic recession.
It is again something that we're simply not prepared to deal with.
We simply think that AI is maybe a potentially powerful invention, a a powerful tool for the future, but not worth these risks that are highly likely to occur.
For these reasons, the use of AI should be abandoned.