We should fight the sedentary lifestyle.
When we're talking about fighting the sedentary lifestyle, we think that involves a few things.
First, having programs that exist from a very young age that encourage kids to be active, to be healthy.
It's doing things like allowing allowing people who are working to take time during their life, during their work day, to go out and to walk and to insure that people are having a more physical, average day than they otherwise would be if they were sitting at a desk and looking at a computer the entire day.
Firstly, it's important to recognize that humans were made to be mobile.
The ancestor of our species the the the the what we evolved from was not a sedentary actor.
We weren't sloths and we weren't we weren't parasites that were living in one area but rather we were active.
We were apes.
We were moving from place to place.
We were climbing trees.
Our body has involved for an active lifestyle.
It's not evolved to be sitting hunched over a computer all day looking at a screen and there are just numerous studies that show the problems that come from that whether it's arthritis in your hands and in your joints, whether it's a hunchback that develops at a later age because you're used to bending over so often, whether it's the higher propensity for eye damage and for vision problems as you get older.
The sedentary lifestyle is incredibly problematic for one's health and we think that especially the sedentary lifestyle has led to the growing obesity epidemic.
Obesity corresponds with any number of health problems heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, a shorter lifespan overall.
Being obese is one thing that can be incredibly damage a person in a variety of different ways but it is also something that more than half of the population of the united states would be diagnosed as overweight or obese and the problem with and we think that the sedentary lifestyle is a large reason to do for that.
When in past generations children didn't have the ability to sit at home and stay at their computers all day or watch their TV all day and people that had to work jobs didn't most jobs weren't just sitting at a computer at a desk somewhere.
Most jobs required some sort of physical activity but in the past few decades our lives have transformed in a dramatic way and it has led to people taking advantage of that sedentary lifestyle, taking advantage of that opportunity and in turn becoming more obese and we think it's crucial that we as a species, we as a population try to avoid this because one, once you're obese it is incredibly difficult to not be obese.
Weight gained is a lot easier than weight lost and two, this has a dramatic impact on your well being moving forward.
We think that doing something like being active for thirty minutes a day can have a dramatic impact on the obesity rate in this country and is something that we should we should try and fight against.
So finally, we thing that exercise not only corresponds with better physical health but it also corresponds with better mental and emotional health.
Doing something like thirty minutes of working out a day whether it's running or whether it's boxing or whether it's some sort or dancing some sort of physical activity that you like to do, it's something that can improve your mood.
It can release dopamine and it's something that is scientifically shown to make your life an easier thing.
It allows you time to process.
It allows you time to get out of your own head and we think it's something that is beneficial on any number of levels.
For these reasons, we should fight the sedentary lifestyle.