We should increase ecotourism.
We think that the way that we're going to go about doing this and we think that first this is probably a broadly principled debate but as far as some ways that we can go about increasing ecotourism we can try to provide more public funding to these types of natural reserve reservations, national parks, these types of things that provide a pristine look at ecosystems uninterrupted and we can also try and expand the marketing base for these types of things provide subsidies for people to go to these areas of of especially high concern these types of things are all possible.
But on the principle, firstly we want to talk about environmental awareness and education.
In the status quo, many people are simply unaware of the natural wonders and the value of the ecosystems we live in.
For many people that live in urban areas, they're simply never exposed to the wide variety of ecosystems and the wide variety of natural objects and natural wonders that exist out in the world and without that type of exposure it's difficult for them to internalize the harm that we're doing to the world not just to the environment but also to ourselves to our children to the ability to experience these wonders when you haven't had that experience yourself.
It's very difficult to internalize that lost.
We think that ecotourism exposes people to these environments in a way that allows them to be preserved.
In many instances when you have development that allows people to go to say a new beach front or it allows people to expand into new areas this type of development is harmful to the ecosystem but when you do things like ecotourism and you go to pristine preserved areas it allows you to experience those environments in a way that doesn't overtly harm them.
We also think you build a type of empathy for our planet, you create an atmosphere where people want to protect the environment and this is important because we face some serious environmental challenges.
Firstly and it goes about mentioning that global warming is a clear and obvious threat that environmental degradation contributes to but on top of that there's massive deforestation ecosystem degradation that's occurring independent of global warming.
There's also mass extinction of animal species the anthropocene is one age potentially one age of our of our earth's life cycle that this time there's been more death and more extinction this is been essentially a mass extinction event between when humans essentially came on the scene as a species and now and this is causing immense damages to ecosystems, to environmental balance, to food chains, all these things that have long ranging reprecussions for our planet and for our future.
But secondly, even if you think that people are never going to become aware and they're never going to become advocates or anything like that, we think that you're still funding conservation and that's good.
Not only does this raise awareness but it directly raises funds because oftentimes when you go to these areas the money you're spending goes directly into a fund.
If I go to a to a national park the money I spend in that park goes into preserving that area and even if people aren't spurred to make changes more money for those efforts it means that there's more money for those efforts that already exist to preserve these environments and these funds we think are best as compared to other kind of more higher national or global funds like the sierra club or these types of projects because they have very specific ties to these ecosystems.
They're run by people that know what these what the needs for these areas are and how best to preserve these areas.
So when you're going on ecotourism your funding these very specific areas these very specific organizations we think you're best able to contribute to preserving these environments rather than say if you just give a donation to the local sierra club group or something of that nature.
For these reasons, we should increase ecotourism.