We should discourage the use of hormonal contraception.
So, hormonal contraception is often taken in the form of a pill, most often by women, actually, in today's day, almost entirely by women, and it is used as a form of female birth control that prevents people from getting pregnant by disrupting their the hormones that they produce naturally.
So, a few reasons why we think that this should be discouraged, and when we say discouraged, obviously, we're not talking about a ban.
We're just saying that, generally, doctors, public health officials that are recommending birth control, should use hormonal contraception as more of a last result than is something that's a go-to.
So, first, hormonal contraception leads to an increased risk of breast and cervical cancer.
While it has been shown that hormonal contraception can lead to a decreased risk in certain types of cancer, like ovarian cancer, there is a there's clear studies that show that regular taking of hormonal contraception can lead to a higher risk of breast and cervical cancer.
Additionally, hormonal contraception can lead to high blood pressure, especially amongst women that already have different risk factors for high blood pressure, like high levels of stress or women that are regular smokers, and this is something that can lead to obvious risks, cardiovascular harms, moving forward.
It also leads to the increased risk of migraine headaches.
It leads to a type of migraine headache that can be incredibly debilitating for people, it can make them less functional in their day-to-day life, all for the purpose of contraception.
And fourthly, it leads to an increased risk of blood clots.
So you can see that the types of harms, the types of side effects, and these are not kind of these are not throwaway side effects, these are things that can have real and meaningful impacts on one's life and do occur in a fairly high amount of women, given the data that we have available to us today.
And on top of all that, as far as types of birth control, while it is very effective if used correctly, it's very easy to use hormonal contraception incorrectly.
You need to take the pill every single day.
You need to make sure you're up-to-date on your birth control.
And if you miss even a single day, that can put you at risk of unwanted pregnancy, an unintended pregnancy.
So you're taking on all of these risks, you're messing with your biological functions while at the same time, potentially leading to a situation in which you will get pregnant anyway.
And many people don't realize that if they miss even a single pill on their regimen, that means that they're that they could get pregnant.
It means that they are at a risk of unintended pregnancy.
And the reason that we think it's important to discourage this use is because there are alternatives that exist that, when used correctly, are similarly effective.
For example, correct condom use has a very high a ninety five percent effectiveness, which is similarly which is similar when you take into account people that forget to take their pills, forget to use their contraception appropriately, it's a similar similar level of effectiveness.
IUDs are also incredibly effective as well as other implants, and the benefits of that is that you don't need to think about using it.
You don't need to worry about regular use, making sure you're taking your pill every single day, and " oh, did I miss a day a couple of weeks ago?
I can't remember.
I feel like my period might be a little late this month. "
It removes any of that anxiety, and it removes any of that obligation on the woman herself.
It's just a simple implant that is incredibly effective, over ninety five percent effectiveness rate, and it means that you can go about and have your regular sexual life without having to worry about taking a pill, without having to worry about side effects like breast, cervical cancer, high blood pressure, migraine headaches, and blood clots.
For these reasons, we should discourage the use of hormonal contraception.