We should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
So, in this round, we're not going to try and argue that stem cell research doesn't have positive medical impacts that it is likely to yield, nor are we really going to argue about the ethics of stem cell research.
We think it is certainly debatable whether or not stem cell research is an ethical practice, but we don't think that that is necessary to show why we shouldn't subsidize stem cell research.
Instead, we're going to provide three arguments that will directly clash with the arguments that we get out of the government side.
So, the first argument that we would make is that there's simply sufficient funding, in the status quo, from private investors, when when we're talking about embryonic stem cell research.
So the government side tries to preempt this by giving a sort of blippy remark that there's a lot of public outcry and public stigma about stem cell research, which we're going to touch on later, but that this essentially turns off investment from private investors.
We don't think that that is really the case.
First and foremost, most of these private investors, these big firms, aren't really visible to the public anyway.
They're not, you know, these types of funds aren't in the public spotlight all that frequently, but more and so we think there's not really a a public stigma.
But more importantly, look at all of the benefits of research that the government the government themselves gives to us: the potential to to cure most conditions that currently face individuals, the improvement to the economy if individuals are less likely to be sick and less likely to be harmed.
This is why there is a huge earning potential for anyone that is willing to invest in embryonic stem cell research.
And it's much more it's much less risky than other types of research, because we already sort of understand the potential benefits that can be unlocked and we understand the science behind why it's the case.
So it's less of a gamble than other scientific ventures that is likely to yield a very high return, which is why even if there is a public stigma, like the government side says, we think it's much more likely that investors are going to be willing to overcome that and line up to in order to to put their money behind something that could be incredibly beneficial.
And the second thing to point out about this is that if all of these benefits are true that the government side is saying, we think all that you're doing in a subsidized, in a system in which you subsidize this research, is you put government money into private individuals, and then you let them take the return from that private from that public investment and use it to make themselves richer.
Because who is the government realistically going to subsidize here?
They're going to subsidize the corporations and the the big pharmaceutical companies that the government side is so quick to decry.
And maybe this will make the drugs marginally less expensive, but we already put so much funding into big pharma so much public funding that we think it's unrealistic to think that suddenly they're going to change their tune and not drive and not make these these sort of treatments incredibly costly.
So at the end of the day, we think that there's just going to be funding for this and that in the world in which the government does provide a subsidy for this, you're just coating the pockets of those that are already wealthy.
The second point that the government side makes is about ethics, but we actually don't think ethics the ethics of this is all that important, just public opinion.
Because recognize, while the government may seem like big brother at times, in a democratic state, the people's money, which is what this subsidy would be coming from, from tax revenue, from tax money, the people's money should be the way that it's going to be spent should be decided by the people.
Everyone worked hard, everyone paid in their fair share, and if that's the case, we think that given that stem cell research is incredibly controversial, it's something that a large portion of the public doesn't want to have happen and doesn't care for, we think that in that case, while the government may know best, while the government may be making a wise investment that could improve public health, it's not the government's authority to decide how to spend that money.
It is, instead, authority that can only be gained by the people, and the people clearly don't want this.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize embryonic stem cell research.