We should not fight sedentary lifestyle.
So, in this round, we're going to make a few arguments.
First, we want to make the argument that the sedentary lifestyle is likely impossible to stop.
So we think that it is if you're going to try and fight something like a social movement, like a a cultural change such as the sedentary lifestyle, we think that it needs to be something that you can actually prevent from happening, but we just don't think that's the case.
We live in we think we live in a society, in today's day and age, in which people spend the vast majority of their time sitting down.
They spend the vast majority of their time not being physically active.
And it's not only because people are more lazy.
It's not just because there are more distractions that people have in front of them, because there are video games, and because people don't go hiking anymore.
It's not just all of those things that people like rant about, but it's also that the modern world, modern jobs, don't require that kind of physical labor but do require the type of labor that forces you to sit at a desk all day: things like programming jobs, things like working in an office environment, like working in a business environment.
Most of the jobs that exist in today's day and age that are well-paying do not require you to be physically active, and we think that those jobs end up being the things that drive progress for the rest of of society.
The jobs that are oftentimes the most sedentary are the ones that progress our that progress our science, that progress our technology, that allow for people to have improved quality of life, research, things like this.
These are all, research in in things like medicine, these are things that don't require robust movement and are something that we should be actively encouraging people to pursue.
And, yes, there are ways to be less sedentary.
You can get a desk that you stand at or something like that, but in in in general terms, in terms of how people are likely to behave in the future, we think it is almost certain that people are going to continue to behave this way, and we think that it's likely a good thing, on net, that people do behave this way, because it ensures that we're getting higher quality of life overall and more progress as a society.
And the sedentary movement doesn't lifestyle doesn't mean that you never exercise.
That's a hyperbolic claim.
You can still work at a desk during the day.
You can spend most of your time sitting and still make half an hour a day to go for a run, or go for a walk, or do some sort of exercise.
This is not contradictory to the sedentary lifestyle, but the sedentary lifestyle involves primarily not moving around too much.
But you can still be a healthy person.
You can still eat healthy.
You can still get your thirty minutes of activity a day and do things that will ensure that you have health in the long run.
And, frankly, in the long run, if we're talking about this generation, this generation that's coming of age today, the impacts of the sedentary lifestyle, things like obesity, things that can have long-term health ramifications are likely to be the types of things that are solved for by future medicine, by the progress that we are making as a society in part due to that sedentary lifestyle.
It's not entirely unlikely that things like diabetes, that things like like widescale obesity, like weight gain, these types of things have some sort of scientific solution to them and that, in the future, our progress will allow us to get there.
So we don't think that people are actually at that high of a risk for long-term health problems, and we think that in the short term, there are things you can do to maintain some sort of level of physical fitness and that, at the end of the day, this is a fight that is never going to be won, and is one that is against our social progress.
For these reasons, we should not fight sedentary lifestyle.