We should not abolish foster care.
In this round, the government side has tried to paint foster care as a system in which people are entirely in it for profit, in which people simply want to get a financial benefit of taking these children into their homes, but the reality is much more complicated than that.
While we certainly wouldn't deny that there are abuses in the foster home system, there are also massive abuses that exist within orphanages.
And given that this is the case and that many foster parents do want to take care of their children, that they aren't in this for a financial incentive, which we'll talk about a little more in a second, we think that the reality is that foster homes are oftentimes an effective tool for the government to use, especially in areas in which children have already been living in certain places for a long time, in which they have a tie to the community, rather than rounding them all up and putting them in orphanages.
So, let's talk about what the government has presented to us.
The first argument they make is that there are harmful incentives that lead to abuse, that a large percentage of foster children are victims of abuse, and that because people are paid to take in foster children, this creates pernicious incentives.
But there's a couple of problems with that argument.
The main problem with that argument is that these incentives are not greater than the cost of caring for a child.
And now while it's true the foster parent can still try to to be as minimalistic in caring for that child as possible, the reality is there are major there are major harms that come from abuse, like legal violations that come with that abuse that can land you in serious trouble.
And if that abuse that abuse becomes obvious to the point where you're not spending that incentive money on the child, if that child is emaciated, if they haven't been to the doctor an extended period of time, something that is relatively easy for a social worker to pick up on, then you lose that incentive and put yourself at legal risks.
But even if you don't buy the arguments that I just made, recognize that orphanages have many of those same incentives, where they get funds from the government, but multiplied by a dramatic degree because of how many children they take in.
And so if you buy that people that are taking in these children are are doing so only for financial incentives, we think the same is likely to happen in orphanages.
And given that abuse happens in both sides, the real question is given that reform and investment is needed, which should we be investing more in and, because this argument is about total abolition, can we still have foster care to a certain degree, which we think is certainly the case.
The second argument that they make is that this is a bad use of resources and that when you centralize children in group homes and orphanages, it becomes easier to redistribute resources and easier to monitor people.
Two responses.
The first is that this also creates higher infrastructure costs, which means that the government is ultimately expending more, whereas in foster homes, you can push that burden onto people that are willing to take in these children.
A large percentage of foster parents are people that are relatively wealthy and feel the desire to give back.
And because of that, we think that many of them are better equipped than a state that is oftentimes already struggling for resources to to start investing in these things.
And on the point of it being easier to monitor, this may be true, but in a less centralized system, you have a situation which if abuse is found, fewer people are being abused in any one location, and there's more options to move people to other foster parents rather than if you have abuse that's rampant in an entire orphanage, moving children into a different situation becomes much more difficult, because there are more to move and because more have been harmed.
We think that regardless of whether whether or not foster care is perfect, it's clear that there are certainly instances in which it is beneficial and that in a comparative sense with orphanages, there's no reason to abolish it.
And for these reasons, we should not abolish foster care.