We should not introduce a pollution tax.
So, we're gonna make three main arguments in this round about why a pollution tax would be problematic and it would be preferable not to have one.
The first is that we think, just broadly, that taxes are unjust, and we should try and minimize taxes to the greatest extent that we can.
So, we think that taxes are fundamentally theft by the government for good for labor that is being done by the populace, that the state does not have that the state taking away your money is tantamount to forcing labor onto people, and for not allowing them to get a fair yield for their labor.
Some will say that the state apparatus exists and that because of that state apparatus, people should give back to the state.
But people did not have the ability to meaningfully consent to that state.
I, as a citizen of the united states, never signed a contract that said I'm going to pay taxes to you.
I never said that I agree with the laws and the taxation that's being done, and I never had the ability to opt-out from that system of taxation, because anywhere else I flee to is going to create some sort of system of taxation that confines me.
Taxes are, across the globe, something that cannot be avoided by people.
And given that that's the case, we think that they are essentially theft.
Given that taxes are essentially theft, we don't think that it is just to to have a high level of taxation, to increase taxation, and introducing a new tax in the form of a pollution tax, we think, only exacerbates existing harms that exist because of taxation.
If you want to have something that's cutting down on pollution, we think it's preferable to have increased regulations to to avoid pollution.
We think it's fine to have certain certain business regulations to try and ensure that business practices are clean, because obviously pollution creates a harm for people, but taxation is not the avenue that we need to go about to do it.
The second reason that we want to talk about is that these taxes, in particular, are just going to be bad for business.
Recognize that, in many developing countries, these types of taxes simply do not exist, that there's nor sort of tax in china or in other developing countries against pollution, in the status quo.
And so if you introduce this tax as, say, the united states, we think it's very likely the case that it's going to increase costs of doing business in the united states, and it's going to create a new incentive to move business abroad.
And frankly, there's enough of an incentive to do that in the status quo because of lower labor costs, because of less regulation.
Introducing this new type of tax is going to make businesses in america comparatively less competitive with the rest of the world, and we think it's going to create a system in which you lose american jobs, you lose domestic labor, and you make it more difficult for businesses in domestic businesses to thrive.
We also think that it's incredibly difficult to actually measure the level of pollution and to apply the tax fairly.
So, we don't think, firstly, that this is a principally just thing to implement.
But even if you could, we think it's certainly the case that it needs to be implemented fairly if you're going to do it, but how can you track the exact amount of pollution that one business causes in comparison to another business?
How can you track the actual levels of pollution that are coming out from, say, a factory or coming from a small business and to try to apply that taxation equally across the board for all people?
We just don't think it's actually possible.
We don't think that this is going to be a fair application of the law.
And if the law isn't going to be applied fairly, we don't think it's just to take away money from the pockets of individuals, hard workers that put their labor into the into their businesses, into their lives, and should be getting a yield back for that, but taxes are stripping that from them.
We think that if you want to protect the environment, if you want to cut down on pollution, that's fine.
But a tax is certainly the most unjust way you can go about doing it and for these reasons, we should not introduce a pollution tax.