We should not abolish the american jobs act.
Recognize that when the american jobs act was proposed we were in the middle of the worst recession, the worst economic regression that we've seen since the great depression.
We think that in that time the fact that over ten percent of the population was unemployed, could not feed their families, could not feed themselves, pay their bills is a major problem that was being faced and the way to solve that problem is through injecting capital into the economy to do things like provide jobs like this bill would've done.
Let's get into the arguments that the government side makes.
The first is that this is an increase in spending which provides harms and they say that this is just a massive expenditure by the government and that this is problematic.
But recognize that economists in large part agree that's cyclical spending is incredibly important.
That during times of economic downturn one of the major things that gets the economy going again is government spending in things that allows for job growth to occur, that allows for capital to flow back into the market, that allows for businesses to start to hire again and grow.
We think that if not for actions like the jobs act, the recession likely would have carried on much longer than it actually did and ultimately we and ultimately that the cyclical type of spending is good.
They say that the increase of taxes anger people and that ultimately that this is problematic because people are unhappy with these things and it decreases political will for other spending but I don't see why this is the tipping point in the increase of taxes that's going to make the government like suddenly not be able to pass spending bills.
All taxes make people angry.
I hate every month when money gets pulled out of my paycheck.
It doesn't matter the degree to which the money is pulled out, it makes me angry either way but these taxes are necessary in order for the government to function.
In the time of a recession it's important that those that can afford to pay pay into the system so that we can get other people back on their feet.
They say that short term unemployment isn't the most important thing in the world and they say that other things would've been a better use of these resources in this political will but again, recognize that this came during a massive recession.
It's a huge deal when millions of people are unable to provide for their families, to get basic needs being met, are are going homeless, losing their losing their jobs, their savings.
This was a huge damage to vast swathes of our society and we think that this is certainly a large enough issue that the government should be addressing it and that this is one of the main purposes of the government existing.
Then they claim that this cuts off other social services but that just isn't true.
Medicare payments and social security payments and other things like that were not affected by this, their budgets are not tied to this bill and in fact the reason that there are taxes tax increases tied into this bill is because you needed to pay for this bill.
So we don't think it's the case that all of a sudden people aren't going to be able to collect social security because of this act.
Finally under this argument they say that people resent those who benefit from the jobs act and so they turn away.
They start lobbying against things like unemployment benefits and all that type of stuff.
Again, all these things in the jobs act essentially already exist before but to just a greater degree because of the climate that we are in.
I don't see why this is the meaningful tipping point and no reason has been given why this is the meaningful tipping point that these programs are suddenly going to be at a massive risk.
So the last argument they make or the second point is that this is a bad solution and it creates a market dependency on the government for jobs but that's not true.
When you have decreased unemployment this leads to more people having money that they can put into the market so more capital in the market which creates more profit in thus the ability to invest in your business and create long term growth.
This is why cyclical spending is so important and why many economists agree that this was the right act to take.
For these reasons, we should not abolish the american jobs act.