We should not further exploit wind turbines.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments.
The first argument we want to make is that there is a fungible amount of investment that can go towards green technology.
So we want to frame this debate first.
We think that in the status quo, green technology is not a very high impact financial investment if you're trying to get a return on that investment.
If you're investing purely for the purpose of growing your money, of making money off of that investment, we don't think green technology is likely where you're investing.
The reason for this is that there are simply many more profitable ventures that exist that are well-established, that have a high consumer base, and that have long trends of success.
But new green technology companies, companies that are doing wind turbines and solar, these types of companies are simply not proven to succeed and therefore, not a very likely candidate for the investment dollars of those that are simply looking to make money.
So what we think that means is that people that are in the status quo investing in green technology aren't doing so because they like turbines, wind turbines, as a particularly good investment, but they're doing so because they see the benefit of shifting away from fossil fuels.
And that benefit is huge.
Recognize that, in the status quo, we are on the verge of a tipping point when it comes to climate change.
We're on the verge of a point of no return in which water temperatures are going to rise by four degrees celsius, in which global ice caps are going to melt, and there's going to be literally nothing that we can do to stop it.
So we think that when it comes to green technology, it's important that we put all of our eggs in one basket.
The reason for that is that when you have all of your investment in one area, the trend the growth trend is an exponential trend of growth.
This is the case for any type of green technology: that if you have more money going into one area, you're more easily able to grow that area, rather than having a bunch of different areas of investment that are all sort of sputtering along at the same pace.
So what we think is that, ultimately, this is a debate about which green technology is best, about where we should putting what basket we should putting all of our eggs in.
And when it comes to that, we think that solar is fundamentally a better source of energy.
Recognize that if you were somehow able to capture all of the power from wind on earth, it would pale in comparison to the amount of energy that we get from the sun in a single day.
There's simply an immensely higher amount of energy that can potentially be gained from solar, but there's also other benefits to solar energy.
First, there are comparatively more businesses that are profitable and there's a comparatively higher ability for people to consume that good.
It's something that people can adopt easily and on their own.
It's something with a wide consumer base where more and more people can adopt these technologies and choose to live off the grid, and it's something that already has batteries that have been developed that are simply more efficient than wind.
And these are production processes that are further along their growth trend than wind turbines are.
So we think that pouring money into solar is more likely to yield higher results than pouring that same exact money is into wind, not just because of the potential that exists with solar energy but also because we're already further along that growth trend.
Because you have investors and companies owned by people like elon musk that are pushing the boundaries of solar technology right now.
Given that that is the case, we think that it is fundamentally preferable to exploit solar energy to the furthest extent possible, and that requires us to shift all of our funding away from wind turbines because it is a tradeoff of those fungible resources.
For these reasons, we should not further exploit wind turbines.