We should not abolish capital punishment.
In this round we're fine taking the stance that capital punishment should be limited to extremely certain and very few cases.
That only the most heinous of crimes should be treated with capital punishment, that the appeal process should be allowed to be lengthy and that people should be allowed to to take justice to its fullest extent if they wish to appeal it.
But that being said, we think that in certain instances people have done crimes that are so heinous and we are certain of those heinous actions that they have forfeited their right to life and that the only proportional response, the only just response is capital punishment.
So let's get into the government's arguments and explain why we don't think that they are sufficient for abolishing capital punishment.
The first argument is that the there's a risk of killing innocents and that forensics have shown, especially in the last couple of decades, that many people have been falsely convicted.
Not just under the death penalty but under you know crimes of all shapes and sizes.
We agree that this is definitely the case which is why we should limit the death penalty and not abolish it.
We should make sure that when we're applying the death penalty were doing so only in instances in which we are certain that the person that committed the crime is guilty.
And there are instances like this.
For example, look at the mass shootings that have that have occurred in the united states.
Whether it's the charleston shooting or the shooting at the aurora movie theater.
We were able to apprehend the person that did this and we know with one hundred percent certainty that they are guilty of the crimes that they've committed.
Now some may say that these people were not mentally stable and some may say that they can't be held accountable for their crimes but I think that that is ridiculous.
When you're talking about the amount of pain that these people have caused, the fore thought that they had of the pain that they caused, the amount of damage that they've done.
Putting someone in jail for the rest of their life, where they can just live out their life on the government's money is not a sufficient response.
The families of these of the victims want justice.
Society wants justice.
They want to deter acts like this in the future and the only sufficiently for doing that is through the is through capital punishment.
So maybe we shouldn't use it if we're not a hundred percent certain.
Maybe we should limit the death penalty to a significant degree.
But when we are certain and when crimes are as heinous as those we think that it is absolutely justified to use capital punishment.
The second argument is that this is an abuse of state power because the state has a monopoly on violence and ultimately when there's a huge power imbalance between two sides the powerful side, that being the state must use it responsibly.
But we think it is responsible to proportionally punish crimes that are committed with in the state's jurisdiction.
In fact this is what the vast majority of people would want.
People want to know that if a crime is committed against them that the state will will respond justly and will ensure that their rights are upheld to the furthest extent possible.
But even if you think that this is an abuse of state power, we think that the criminals that we're talking about in instances of capital punishment are people that have forfeited their rights.
If you do something like the charleston shooting and kill a dozen individuals that we're just doing nothing but worshiping at a church, you forfeited your right to life.
You've shown that you have no belief in the value in the sanctity of life and therefore we should have no reason to value the life that you live.
They say that there's no way to appeal this thing.
We're fine with having a lengthy appeal process.
And the final thing they say is people recognize over time and you can see in trends that the death penalty can punish fewer and fewer things and that you should just take this to its furthest extreme.
But we think that that's nonsense.
We think that just because we've recognized that maybe stealing a loaf of bread isn't worth death penalty doesn't mean that crimes that we viscerally understand to be as heinous as mass murder shouldn't be punished with capital punishment.
For these reasons we should not abolish capital punishment.