Casinos should not be banned.
In this round the government side has tried to paint for you this idea that people need to be protected from their worst urges, that casinos are all around bad for almost everyone that enters them and that at the end of the day, the government should just make this decision that we will never have casinos.
We think that that is a flawed representation of how the government should behave and is also a flawed representation of how people feel.
The first argument they make is that casinos are a coercive business model, that they mislead people about the odds that they will win, that people lack information about the true odds at the roulette table or other types of gambling and that because of this, they can't make rational decisions.
First and foremost, this information is not only widely available to anyone that wants to look for it.
Like if you do a google search for is like are the casino games fair, what are my odds of winning at the roulette table, these types of things, it's blatantly obvious that these are not games that you are likely to win and most people, the vast majority of people that go into the casino know that this is the case.
So we don't think that this is actually an instance of asymmetry of information, but rather it's grown adults making the decision for themselves that they want to take that risk and when they have their hard earned money and they've decided that this is how they want to spend that money just because it's not the decision that the government side would make doesn't mean that the government needs to intervene and make this decision for them.
We think rather the government should be maximizing the freedom of individuals to do what they want within their borders and just to highlight one more thing they say this is coercive.
There's no one coercing people to go into the casino.
Maybe they just want to have the thrill of the game.
Maybe they just want to go and enjoy this thing for a brief amount of time for example the only time I've ever gone to a casino I brought twenty I brought twenty dollars with me and I said " I'm probably gonna walk out at the end of the night with none of this money ".
Lo and behold I walked out with none of that money but I enjoyed the experience of being at the casino nonetheless.
So it's not like people go in there with the expectation of making a ton of money nor do they nor they unaware of the fact that casinos to be profitable, which they clearly are because they're open, need to win more than they lose.
So because of that, we don't think that this is coercive.
We don't think there's an asymmetry of information.
Second, they say this is bad for the communities that host these casinos, that they don't actually spread the tourism money that comes from casinos because most people just stay at the casino.
We won't deny that this is the case but we would say that you should allow locales to make this decision on the individual basis rather than having a blanket ban.
Maybe it's the case that in certain areas casinos can be profitable for the communities around them like las vegas, like atlantic city.
These are areas that are built around the casino business and so clearly having casinos in these areas is not bad for the overall community but certainly in some instances they will be bad and in those instances we think that locales are informed enough to make the decision for themselves about whether or not to have the casino.
They say that this brings an unsavory action like prostitution and organized crime.
We just don't think that if these actions are taking place in a legal manner in the casinos that they're that bad and frankly, prostitution should be legal.
The final argument they make is that the alternative the alternative world, the government world, has less gambling and that gambling is addictive to many people.
But the fact that gambling is addictive to some people doesn't mean that you should strip the autonomy of the whole because of these few people and frankly people that are addicted to gambling or could be addicted to gambling can still play the lottery, they can still play poker with their friends, they can still do things to gamble in either world but we think that the autonomy of people to go to casinos, the free market to open a casino and the decision of locales to have a casino should be upheld.
For these reasons, casinos should not be banned.