We should not raise the corporate tax.
So, the round is defined by the government as a comparative of a progressive tax increase over current rates on corporations based on their size, their earnings, etcetera.
So the first argument that they make is essentially a principled justification for why raising the corporate tax is good, and their argument is that corporations have money because essentially a force forcible capitalist oppression that creates a system in which money is basically funneled to corporations at the expense of the individual and that corporations create harm because of their actions.
So, the first argument the first response to this is that something in order for something to be unjust and oppressive and coercive, you need to look at it in a comparative context.
So I'm not sure what system the government side would prefer to the capitalist system we have now in which you have essentially free markets but with protections for workers' security and workers' well-being, with certain price regulation to ensure that the average person is at least able to afford what they what they need with welfare systems, but still a system that allows for essentially free individuals to make choices about how they're going to spend their money, what they want to do with their well-being, with their livelihoods, with their productive capacity, and allows people to be entrepreneurial and gain benefits for themselves through things like hard work.
We think that the free market is essentially a pretty good system that's better than the alternatives that have been shown throughout history, and so we think that it is justified and that the idea of this being an oppressive system justifying that ends does not in any way mean that the, first, that the current tax rate needs to be higher, maybe it is just fine where it is, but also I just don't think that all corporations are the drain on society that the government side tries to present them as.
They provide jobs, they provide goods that people like to consume, and just because apple is making iphones and iphones don't feed people doesn't mean that apple isn't providing something productive to the world.
They say that corporations also create political abuse and that this political abuse justifies taking their money.
This political abuse is coming in the forms of legal action, and just because this legal action has an impact on political ends doesn't mean that that justifies essentially increased theft through the form of taxation, and also this doesn't really impact that issue.
Like whether or not you have an increased corporate tax doesn't change any sort of political abuse that the government perceives.
They then kind of repeat this and say the marginal utility of a dollar is greater for poor people and you have enough money either way.
We don't think that this is the case.
Corporations always want to increase their margins for their taxpayers, for their for their shareholders, for their board, for all people involved.
And if you increase corporate tax rates, this harms their margins.
This makes them look bad, this makes their this makes it look bad to their shareholders, and we think they're going to want to maintain and increase their margins, which leads to a few outcomes of higher tax rates.
One could be layoffs that leave more people unemployed.
Another could be just exporting jobs altogether to a a country that has lower corporate tax rates.
And the third possibility is increasing prices, which impacts all consumers.
So we don't think it's enough to say that the marginal utility of a dollar is greater for poor people than it is for these corporations when there are a number of different impacts that come from taking that dollar that ultimately all get passed down to the individuals that the government side is most concerned about.
And given that this is the case, we have found an equilibrium now where the corporate tax rate exists but doesn't create these market harms, and we don't think that increasing it will do much good.
The final argument they make is that rich people essentially, just repeating the fact that if you give this money to the government, you can vest it on other things that help more people.
First, see our argument above about why this creates more market harms, but second, the government can do a whole lot of things that impede on freedom but would create more quote unquote utility, but this creates tyranny which we find to be unjustified.
For these reasons, we should not raise the corporate tax.