We should not limit the exploitation of natural resources.
So, we think that the status quo the limitations that exist in terms of like protecting environments in order to ensure that different areas don't get entirely destroyed, in which ecosystems don't get upheaved, those limitations, the existing limitations, are fine.
But as far as limitations in terms of preventing either global warming, in terms of preventing things that have long-term impacts in terms of ensuring that we don't use up all our natural resources, all these types of limitations, we think, are unnecessary.
So, a few arguments we want to make: first is that we think that many people talk today as if global warming is something that can still be stopped, as if within a reasonable time period, we can really make change that will prevent the worst impacts of global warming, but that just is factually inaccurate.
If you look at any sort of trend line as far as where we are heading as a species, where we're heading as a collective of nations, there's a projection of where we are going to be, which is dramatically ahead of where we need to be in the next ten years to prevent a tipping point, there's a graph of the line that we if we meet all of our international obligations, if every country in the world meets the standards that they have set for themselves and have agreed to through international accords, that is still a line of emissions that is higher than what it needs to be in order for us to prevent the worst impacts of global warming.
And we think it's very unlikely that that that line is even met, which means the worst impacts of global warming global: the global sea level rise, the intensity of storms, the changing of the regularity of the seasons, all of these things are going to happen.
And given that these things are going to happen, we think that you need to try and exploit all the resources we have as much as possible in order to progress science, progress technology to a point at which we are able to start to reverse the changes we've made or that we can build the shelters we need in order to protect the harms that we're doing, in order to build up the massive amount of infrastructure that it's going to need be needed inland went inland is the only area that's actually safe for living, or that's not being flooded, or that isn't being hit by constant hurricanes.
These are things that we need to prepare for as a species, given the likely the likely outcome that we don't change our behavior enough to prevent global warming.
So we also think that so aside from global warming, people will say that we need to preserve natural resources for future generations.
But to that, I say: if you actually look at the natural resource deposits that are potentially available to us, the natural resources that are presented to us through things like astro mining, through things like going into space and retrieving resources are dramatically higher than the amount of resources that we have available to us on earth.
We think that it's highly likely that, in the future, astro mining, a type of a business that is already starting to take off, that's already receiving a lot of investment, is likely going to be the dominant form of resource extraction of natural resource extraction.
What we think the benefit of that is is, first, it lowers the cost of those resources because there is such a high abundance of them, billions and billions of dollars, trillions of dollars worth of natural resources in single large asteroids.
We think that there is an immense amount of benefit in the future, and so we don't think there's actually a need for preservation of natural resources right now, because while it's true we're constrained to a certain amount of natural resources on earth compared to the abundance of natural resources that are potentially available to us within our own solar system, there's really no need for conservation in that regard.
So for these reasons, we should not limit the exploitation of natural resources.