We should prohibit tower blocks.
We think what this means in actuality and practice is that cities would ban construction of buildings above a certain height, would ensure that, especially in residential areas, these buildings can't be produced over, say, ten stories.
We're not gonna set a limit, but we think that cities are able to do these things on their own in each individual case.
Another principle is what's most important.
So, firstly, we want to talk about we think the alternative to tower blocks is, what happens if you actually prohibit these things, why we think it's better for overall economic growth.
So, in the status quo, when you allow things like tower blocks, where you're likely to get as populations that skyrocket in areas that otherwise geographically simply don't allow these things to happen.
For example, in new york city, you're constrained by certain geological geographical things like water, types of boundaries, landscapes, things that don't allow you to easily develop in areas for people to grow and for a population to grow.
But by allowing tower blocks, by allowing these buildings and residences, you're able to crowd many many more people onto the island of new york than you otherwise would be able to do if you didn't have these things.
What this means is that population centers, as they currently are, are much higher than otherwise would be the case.
We think it's likely to happen, given that there's already that because of a huge amount of factors, such as the fact that urban areas are more likely to have job opportunities for individuals, they're more likely to have educational opportunities, welfare opportunities, all these things that come with an abundance of resources available in urban areas.
We think that's more likely to happen is that urban areas in very large places like chicago, los angeles, new york, these megalopolises, these areas would become a little bit smaller, would end up downsizing, but what's likely to happen is that people move to other less crowded urban areas, ones in which development, real estate and property is more widely available.
What we think this means, in the long term, is that job opportunities are more geographically diverse.
We think that, in the status quo, these urban areas end up accumulating almost exclusively in coastal regions.
We think that these would begin to move inland as current urban areas were less likely to have available housing, and housing prices we think are likely to go incredibly high, go way, way up if you were to have this type of prohibition.
So, the other reason why we think tower blocks are problematic, besides the fact that prohibiting them would lead to good ends, is that these buildings end up being incredibly high pollutants.
These are high output buildings in the sense that you're cramming a huge amount of individuals into a very small geographic space.
What this means is that the footprint of one of the the green footprint of one individual, in one small area, is massively multiplied and put upon the same region.
Which means that you have overcrowded sewage systems, you have overcrowded landfills, you have a massive excess of waste in these areas in a way that otherwise just would not be possible for the same geographic area.
Which means the natural environments of these areas becoming end up becoming comparatively more polluted than smaller urban areas or non-urban areas, and we think that there's other types of pollution as well, such as light pollution, such as noise pollution, that we think ruins the natural environment as it currently exists.
We think that these things ultimately get cut down when you don't allow for tower blocks and you don't allow for the accumulation of huge amount of people per square foot in city areas.
We also think, generally, that you get a more diverse spread of these types of pollutants, which means that any any excessive pollution would be spread more evenly throughout environments, which means that you end up having less individual degradation in these areas.
Because of the environmental pollution that tower blocks cause and because prohibiting them would lead to better outcomes, we think that we should prohibit tower blocks.