We should not end development aid.
So, at the very beginning of this debate, we want to recognize that development aid is not a huge part of any particular state's budget.
It's not a percentage or multiple percentages of, say, the US budget each year.
These are very small percentages of our of the budgets of developed countries, and we want to point that out because most naysayers of development aid point to two things: first, that people need to be investing in their own countries.
But recognize the vast majority of investment is going into their own countries, and we think there can be benefits that accrue to the nation from the development of foreign countries.
We'll talk about that a little later.
And secondly, they say things like: oh, this development aid is going to cause is going to cause an issue in the states getting the aid where they develop a dependency.
But we think that these are relatively important budgets, but not so large the state is running its entire government on development aid.
These are projects that build up infrastructure and allow for future development, so it's hard to become dependent once that infrastructure exists.
With that being said, two positive points of matter: the first is about reparative justice.
The world has a very long history of globalized depression through from the slave trade to colonialism to imperialism to the dividing of africa and asian states.
This has left many nations in economic ruin through no fault of their own.
It's created the way that, say, imperialism died down.
It created divides between nations over resources and created internal divides in nations from drawing borders arbitrarily, which is something that we saw, especially in africa, following imperialist nations pulling out of their colonies.
We think that the developed world was largely built on the backs of developing people, that there've been decades of abuse, whether it's through exploiting their labor or through exploiting their countries and their resources, that this is how developed nations were able to become developed.
They didn't do it on their own.
And furthermore, we don't think that any individual person is more deserving of a good life just because of the nation they were born in.
We think that all people deserve to have fundamental protections.
So given that people in developed countries and the developed countries themselves have this sort of benefit from the harm to those countries that are still developing, we think there's an obligation to repair for that past harm.
But secondarily, as I hinted at earlier, there is good for the global economy from development.
Globalization and global development improve all lives.
Firstly, there's more markets for business when you have consumers in new nations.
If you're able to develop economies in countries that currently don't have a consumer base, that means that businesses in this now global economy can sell to these new markets.
It's areas of capital that are open for business that never existed before.
There's also more minds for innovation.
When you have things like development, almost always paired with that development is education.
And we think that having more minds for innovation and for education always leads to benefits for humanity because the way our global society works now, those innovations ultimately reach all corners of the globe.
There's also more labor that's available that give us lower prices.
The development of china gave the united states and other developed countries much cheaper goods because we were able to amass more production power from people due to the industrialization of china.
And finally, development leads to more stable governments.
When people don't have to worry about where their food is coming from, when they don't have to worry about the foundations of their lives, their very basic needs being met, because they lived in a developed nation, they're less likely to be hostile.
There's there's more time to have a robust political society and, ultimately, there's more peace.
For these reasons, we should not end development aid.