We should not increase the use of background checks.
So, when we're talking about the use of background checks, these things are primarily being used in the status quo by employers.
And these employers use these background checks to look up things such as past criminal record, past history of drug use, a history of poor behavior in school, they can sometimes get your school records, past employment in a number of other places, to do in to essentially do research on potential candidates.
So, the first argument that the government makes then is, unsurprisingly, that this is helpful to employers, that lots of information that is relevant to hiring a person isn't something that you can just get out of a job interview, and that it's important to have the type of information that you get from a background check prior to bringing someone into your company.
But while this may sound reasonable on the surface, let's dissect this and look at what those background checks are looking for.
First, they're looking into whether or not you have a criminal record.
We think that this is actually a massive problem in the status quo and leads to incredibly discriminatory behavior.
And the reason for that is that even if you've been convicted of a criminal offense in the past, you served your time.
You went to jail or you served some sort of other penalty, and you were released by the state.
The state itself has deemed you as being able to be a full member of society.
And at that point, we think that doing things like punishing people over and over again by denying them jobs due due to a criminal record, one, makes recidivism far more likely, and two, is unjust for those people, because it never gives them the opportunity to fully reintegrate into society.
It never gives them the opportunity to escape their past, and we think that's unjust.
The second thing that people often look into is a history of drug use, whether or not you have any sort of past entrances into the hospital for drugs, or you have, again, a criminal record for drugs, or maybe you've gone to rehab, but we don't think that the fact that you may occasionally do some sort of drugs necessarily means you're going to be a bad employee.
We think if you have a serious drug problem, this is likely something that's going to be very apparent from very early on, which means that most employers either: one, won't hire you to begin with, or two, will very quickly find that you are not a suitable employee, and they can release you without you having done any real damage and with cause, so it doesn't cost them any money.
So we don't think that drug use is a necessary means for discriminating and doing this sort of research in someone's background.
The final thing is that maybe you've some sort of poor behavior in school or past employment, but it's very simple that people just change.
And we think what employees employers actually need is high quality candidates, and we think they're able to find this information out about whether or not they're a high quality candidate from many other avenues, through references, through past employment history and, most importantly, they can determine those things after hiring someone.
The second argument that the government makes is that this decreases liability for interested parties.
So, specifically for employers, if you do your due diligence, you're able to avoid liability if someone does an offense while you're employed, but: one, again, the things that we just spoke of we don't think are going to be necessarily dictative of future poor actions ; two, we think it's highly unlikely that for most offenses that may be done by this person, especially if they're doing it on their private time, it's very unlikely that you as an employer or some other third party is going to be held liable ; and three, there are just many mechanisms for having good oversight over poor poor employee performance.
And we think that if you're most concerned about liability, it means that you should probably be restructuring the way that you do oversight more so than being concerned about liability.
But what we do know is that background checks are massively discriminatory to people with criminal records, people that are already often very underprivileged in our society, and we think that harm is not outweighed by any benefit to employers.
For these reasons, we should not increase the use of background checks.