We should not end progressive taxation.
In this round we're going to respond to the arguments made by the government side and explain why we think that ultimately progressive taxation is the most fair form of any form of tax whether it be sales tax, wealth tax and income tax what have you.
So the first argument the government side makes is that progressive taxation is unfair and arbitrary and that the wealthy benefit the same from the government.
This is just empirically not the case.
If the government is responsible for providing services in addition to providing things like infrastructure, facilitating a fair and safe market in order for people to do business in, facilitating the livelihoods of people, it is clear that the value that is gained from those services from infrastructure that allows for trade to happen, from markets that allow for business to be done, from protection of property.
Those that have accumulated the most well have clearly benefited disproportionately from these government benefits.
They give the example of roads and everyone drives on those roads yet but not everyone has a fleet of trucks to run their shipping business that those roads require in clearly they are benefiting more from that infrastructure than the poor.
So we think that because the benefits are accumulating greater to the wealthy from government services, that the wealthy should pay a higher tax.
They say secondly, that the state shouldn't determine the marginal value of a dollar.
It's not the state that's determining the marginal value of a dollar, it's the market.
If you have a million dollars verse have a thousand dollars, your rent is still going to be the same.
The ability the cost of housing to you in a flat system is still going to be the same and so the value of your dollar does not go as far if you have less dollars to spend.
Lastly under this they say that the brackets in progressive taxation are are arbitrary.
This is an argument for reforming the system as it exists in the status quo not for abolishing the system and the reason that we shouldn't abolish it is, as we've explained already, the impacts of progressive taxation are greater or the impacts of the government work is greater for those that are wealthy and therefore the wealthy should pay more.
But we also think there are just straight utilitarian benefits that come from progressive taxation and this is our response to their second argument that this is a needlessly complicates tax codes and that it promotes tax evasion.
We think that even if it's true that this does that this complicates tax codes one, we don't think that it's necessarily the case that you can't have progressive taxation and a simplified tax code.
Two, we think that this is dramatically outweighed by the redistribution of wealth that occurs with a progressive tax system that allows for those at the bottom, who are usually at the bottom through no fault of their own, to accumulate some sort of value and to get the benefits that the economy is producing that we see clearly now are not being distributed evenly across the workforce and we think it simply is more fair for the reasons we've already explained.
On tax evasion, we think people will do this anyway.
They gave no clear reason for why a flat tax system wouldn't have the same benefits of tax evasion as the status quo.
Finally, they talk about how progressive taxation ignores inability to pay.
First, you can have a wealth tax that is also progressive.
This argument is about the principal of progressive taxation itself not just income tax but secondly, this acknowledgment that the ability to pay is important in some way contradicts the entire government advocacy.
We think that by acknowledging that there is unfairness in taxing people the same because of their inability to pay, that they show that progressive taxation is the most fair system for all people.
Also even if it does even if it doesn't account if we're only talking about income tax, you can still have tax deductions for debt.
This is not a round winning argument.
For these reasons, we should not end progressive taxation.