Humanitarian aid should not be subsidized.
So, we think that this round, by the topic, is not about whether humanitarian aid, in general, is good, but whether through the mechanism of subsidies, we should be subsidizing humanitarian aid.
And we think that this can come in a couple of forms.
This come from subsidizing groups and and charitable organizations, giving them money directly so that they can do charitable work, so that they can perform acts of humanitarian aid in foreign countries.
This could be doing things like giving tax breaks to individuals who give to these types of organizations.
So we think that in some way or another, this is going to involve giving funds , in part, to organizations to then carry out acts of humanitarian aid.
So, we think that, first, this is just a principally bad use of a subsidy.
So we think that humanitarian aid work is great.
We think that that people are willing to give of themselves, give their time, give their money, give their effort to give to people outside of their own country.
That is something that should be commended.
But this is talking about whether or not we should use public funds in order to enhance these types of operations, these charitable organizations, and in that case, we think that the government would be off track.
When the government takes tax money from people, which is what is essentially being used to give these subsidies, it is doing so without the ability for people to opt out from that taxation or to meaningfully decide what that money is going to go towards.
And we think that because of this, when the state is taking tax money from people, that tax money needs to be going towards some sort of a public good, something that they will feel the benefits of directly.
Otherwise, you're just taking money from them to give to other people, and we think that that is unjust.
We think that individuals have earned their income.
They shouldn't just have their property stripped of them.
And given that they have no ability to opt out of the system, it's essentially thievery unless there's some sort of positive feedback into their lives that comes from that money.
But subsidizing humanitarian aid in foreign countries, is something that doesn't do anything to directly give in to that feedback loop of benefits for them, and that's why we say that humanitarian aid is good, it's something that should be commended, but it's not something that the government should be subsidizing.
It's not something that the government should be taking tax money and giving to other organizations in order for them to do these things.
But even if you think that the government should be doing this, we think that subsidizing humanitarian aid is simply less efficient than targeting and giving direct aid to those countries themselves for the government to carry out acts of humanitarian aid.
And you may say, " well, these different organizations have infrastructure on the ground.
They have relationships in these different areas that allows you to deliver that aid in proper ways. "
That's great.
Then the government can partner with those agencies to use the infrastructure that they've built, while still having their own operatives in the field, while still having their own direction of how that aid is going to be given, rather than just subsidizing these groups and saying, " we like what you do in general, here's some money.
Now we're going to leave and you can do whatever you want with that money. "
We think that rather than doing that, the government should be diligent in how it's spending its money.
It should be doing things that it thinks is going to be the most high impact.
It can certainly partner with charitable organizations but subsidizing them, we think, is just less efficient.
It's less effective than if the government strategizes a plan on its own and carries out that plan, even if that plan may involve the help of these charitable organizations.
For these reasons, humanitarian aid should not be subsidized.