We should introduce compulsory voting.
So just quickly we're gonna lay out a model we think that it would be somewhat simple.
There would be a fine for individuals who don't vote, and obviously you have a tracking of people's birth records, their social security numbers so he would be automatically enrolled to vote and if they didn't show up at the polls, then they would be fined.
And that obviously if someone to write in a vote for literally a nonsense candidate or for a vote of no confidence, we would allow that to happen.
The whole point though is that people make it to the voting booth and express their preference, even if their preferences is for none of the above.
Alright, so three main arguments.
The first is about state legitimacy.
So in order for the state to be legitimate, it needs to have consent from the people and because there's no existing social contract, there's no literal way in which people can consent, we think that the most appropriate proxy for consent is that individuals vote.
But the problem in the status quo is that a large amount of people simply do not go out to vote, they do not have any sort of say in the government's decisions, in their decision making mechanisms, and we think that a system in which you have compulsory voting is more likely to ensure that the government aligns with the preferences of the people, and we think that this has a particular impact on a couple groups of people.
Firstly on younger individuals, and secondly on people that are in lower economic classes because these are the two groups in the status quo that have the lower the lowest percentage of voter turnout per registered voters and per populace, so we think that in having a system of compulsory voting is much more likely to drive these people to the polls which means the government becomes more representative of their views.
And there's reasons in the status quo for why these people can't vote aside from the fact that they simply don't want to, whether it's the fact that young people may not be physically close to their voting location, it's very difficult to vote absentee in certain places, or because people don't understand how absentee voting works and they're lazy or if you're a poorer individual, you may have to work multiple jobs including on the day of an election which can mean that your employer literally will not let you go to work or or in a less extreme case you simply don't have the time to go to work, so we think that part of this would be allowing these individuals to go and vote.
We think it could be a voting holiday that goes along with having compulsory voting, which means that these people would have the time and have the ability to go to vote.
Also, if you create a compulsory voting system, you have to also create the infrastructure that makes it capable for people to go to vote so that voting booths and that voting locations are not incredibly far apart from people and that you have more of these voting locations.
We think all these things make it much more likely that the government is actually representative of the people, which means that it is intrinsically more legitimate than the government that exists in the status quo.
The second thing that we think is a benefit of compulsory voting is that we think you get a more informed populace.
In the status quo because individuals know that they don't have to vote, many of them choose not to be informed about political matters.
But we think that by forcing them to vote and by saying that you must have a say, people are much more likely to just simply tune in to find out things about candidates and it's not difficult in this day and age to google candidates and find things out about their platform and to make decisions about local elections even things that things that are very niche to an area.
We think that having compulsory voting works at all levels of government, makes all levels of government far more legitimate, and makes it more likely that you'll have informed, civic engagement which we think is the sign of a healthy state.
For all these reasons we should introduce compulsory voting.