We should not end development aid.
When we're talking about development aid we're talking specifically about aid that goes towards things in developing countries like building up infrastructure, investing in businesses in those countries so that they can have a firm foundation from which to grow out of, things like this.
We're gonna make two main arguments as to why development aid is not only necessary but obligatory.
First, let's talk about that obligation and in specifically an obligation to correct for past harms.
When we look at the history of the world the modern states that we see today have largely been built up on the backs of developing nations.
When we're talking about industrial powers and world powers like the united states, european nations, we're looking at nations that largely through colonial authority, imperialistic powers, used the production capabilities of other states to enrich themselves.
Because of this, we think that there is an obligation to repair for those past harms because recognize it's not like the states that were being colonialized wanted to be colonialized.
It's not like they wanted to be the subject of foreign rule.
It's that these foreign rulers came in and took their land, took their productive capacity and used it for their own gain.
In this way, we think that states have an obligation to correct for those past harm.
This is much like the obligation that one has to another as on an individual level when a wrong has been done.
If I have an individual harmed another person I have an obligation to make amends for that.
Whether that's through some sort of punishment for myself or some sort of reparative funding to that person, the same exists at the state level because states are only composed of their component parts being individuals and us individuals are still benefiting off of the harm of colonial rule.
The fact that today I live in the united states and I am able to live the lifestyle I am, is is is because of the benefits that were received in my state from this colonial past, from this imperialist past and I every day am the beneficiary of those harms and while I didn't choose to be the beneficiary of those harms it doesn't negate the fact that I am still morally gaining from those types of things and that I have this obligation to pay back especially because paying this back and doing things like having development aid does not preclude benefiting myself.
It doesn't preclude doing things that ensure my own well being.
It's just spending a portion of state salaries on developmental aid.
But additionally, we also think that you just get improved outcomes for everybody when you have international development.
When you have countries building up their development, when you have countries becoming more industrialized and finally modernized, what you have is a few things that benefit everyone.
First, additional trade partners.
This is huge because it not only allows you to get cheaper goods from those states while they're in an industrial phase, but also opens up markets of new consumers which means as a business or as you know as a state with a number of businesses those businesses now have a number of new potential consumers raising the potential revenue that they can generate.
It's so much easier to generate new revenue when you can open up a new market than it is to corner a larger percentage of the market that you currently have available to you.
It also means that you get this sort of spread of ideas and this equilibrium of states.
Where as there is a massive power imbalance in the status quo between the states that have and those that have not, we think that having a rough equality amongst all these states means that you're likely to have more peace amongst those states and you're more likely to have international cooperation to solve large problems that we face as a collective such as global warming.
For these reasons, we should not end development aid.