We should not limit genetic testing.
We think that on the full scale of human discovery, of creativity, that what is made humans advance so much from in the last just six thousand years alone, is that we've had immense scientific growth.
We think that unlocking the key the the keys to our genetic code, to learning how to manipulate and use our genetic code for our own advantages, is one of the most potentially powerful scientific discoveries in that entire history and we don't think that that can be limited.
We think that scientific advancement as a principally, that scientific advancement should not be hindered.
Science leads to technology that improves health and makes work easier.
That is the entire, that that is the trend throughout human history.
That technologies have come into existence that made labor easier to do, that made it more efficient, that yielded a higher output and that created health benefits that allowed people to live longer, to live better lives, to to age and to ultimately have lower things like lower infant mortality rates.
All these things are advances that have especially ramped up in our modern in the post modern industrial era.
We think that our genetics are something that we finally understand on a deep level.
We were just able to map the human genome in the last one hundred, in the last in the last twenty years.
We've just come to be able to fully do this quickly and efficiently in the last five to ten years.
This is an exponential increase in our understanding and we don't think that we can limit this now.
We think that progress always look strange and scary when it first arrives.
The idea of editing the human body, something that has been naturally created through our history, something that is essentially what we are as a species, people look at that and see it as something scary and problematic and something that could be unethical in instances.
But we don't think that the human body formed by nature is perfect, we don't think the genetic code that we have is perfect, and we think that if we can improve on that genetic code there can be huge benefits.
What do those potential benefits look like?
First we could have massively improved lifespans by improving genes.
One of the understandings of aging, one of the things that people, that scientists believe lead to aging is that your genes deteriorate on their end.
So the chromosomes that hold your genes deteriorate and this the telomeres of those genes deteriorate and that's what causes aging.
This is something that genetic testing, that genetic that future genetic innovation could allow us to discover why this is happening and how to prevent it, ultimately stopping aging altogether.
You can also cure life threatening and life altering diseases in utero because there are a number of genetic diseases that are just the chromosomes are not are not aligned properly or there's one too many chromosome.
If you could take out those genetic patterns, if you could replace them, you could remove those genes entirely and improve the livelihoods of millions of people.
You can also improve our own genetics to make humans more super.
The things that give us our certain muscle mass, the things that make our brains a certain size, the things that control our digestive track, the things that make our human ability so great can be exponentially made greater if we're able to understand and test what parts of the human gene create those types of things and how to push those boundaries further.
There's also a a potential for fighting cancer and many other diseases if we have a better understanding of how our genes behave.
And we can unlock information about our own evolution, about human anatomy and about the history of our species and how we came from the jungles of africa to literally living across the globe.
We think of genetic testing is going to be a powerful tool, a powerful human advancement, and that limiting it would be shortsighted and the wrong strategy for human growth.
For these reasons we should not limit genetic testing.