We should not introduce year-round schooling.
So the way that the government has modeled this is essentially that they would break up summer vacation, maybe take off some of the length of summer vacation and instead have multi-weeklong breaks at different points during the school year potentially between quarters but these long breaks during the school year.
So the first argument the government makes is that this system is better for students and that the main reason for this is that over the course of an entire summer people are going to forget material which means you're wasting time going over the same stuff at the beginning of this the beginning of the year that people did at the end of last year and it's just an inefficient way of learning.
But recognize that because of the model that we are presented with that you're still going to have long breaks at multiple points during the school year.
Now you're just saying now you're just increasing the amount of times during the year where you have to go through and review materials.
Like if you're trying to learn a new skill or something new, and anyone can vouch for this, if you take two to three weeks off from doing something like for example, I'm trying to learn how to code right now but I just spent the last week not coding.
I'm going to have to go through and review what I just learned because that's a week away from what I did.
The things that are most recent my memory have faded away and it doesn't take three months for this to happen.
It can happen over the course of a couple of weeks.
So we think that you're just increasing those amounts of wasted review times and we think we'd rather have it so that it's just structured at the beginning of the school year.
They say people will be less stressed and more productive because they have more time off throughout the year but we think you're still likely going to have the same amount of work.
You're just spreading out when the stress is going to occur and so we don't think that this is a meaningful tipping point in terms of how students are feeling.
The final argument they make under this is that this provides preparation for the real world because the real world doesn't have summer vacations but I really genuinely believe that there's value in letting kids be kids and letting kids enjoy the enjoy the freedom that they have, enjoy the fact that they aren't that they aren't responsible for their own well being, that they have developmental time socially, that they are allowed to experience childhood and taking away summer vacation we think has a meaningful harm on that and we think that in the status quo people are able to have kind of a a more fulfilling childhood than they would on the government side of the house.
The second argument they make is that their side of the house maximizes the school system.
First, they point to the united states because that's where this is set and say we are doing poorly globally compared to other countries as far as test scores, understanding in math and literacy, etcetera.
But we think that this isn't just against countries that have year-round schooling like japan.
It's also against countries that don't have year-round schooling like most of europe.
The the issue with the US school system and with our test scores is not just that we have a school schedule the way we do, but it's also the way that we're teaching is regressive, it's not catching up with new standards and new understandings and this is the harm that we are causing.
We think that there are way bigger measures that need to be taken to improve our education system than just breaking up summer vacation and having other breaks during the year.
They say again they talk about wasted review time but again see the argument we already made that we think this is actually worse on their side of the house and finally they say that it's a better use of resources, that you're buildings stay empty during the summer.
We think that this is actually probably good as far as it means there's less money that needs to be spent like for example in the united states most of the country during the summer is really hot which means that you have to spend a lot of resources in air conditioning and other sorts of upkeep for the school in order for it to be used during the summer on the government side of the house which increases taxes, increases costs of education, and ultimately we think creates a worse environment for students to learn in.
For all these reasons, we should not introduce year-around schooling.