We should not end censorship.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think that censorship is not something that needs to be ended but rather something that should be propagated in a just state.
Generally, when people think of censorship they think of things like authoritarian regimes and people being forced not to or being eliminated from being able to speak their minds and speak their preferences.
But this isn't the idea of censorship that we would uphold.
We think that censorship is just preventing certain ideas from being pervaded it all spheres of life.
So there's censorship of ideas but there's also censorship in context and we're going to talk about both.
So first, let's talk about reasons to limit speech which is essentially censorship.
We think that a just state does not necessarily need to allow all ideas to propagate within its society.
We think that there are a number of problematic views that people hold that we think ultimately harm those in our society.
One major example of this would be things like hate speech.
We don't think that you have the right to say anything you want and we think that this is coinciding with the fact that almost all rights in a society are limited to some degree.
There's very little there is no such thing as an absolute right aside from potentially the right to life and this is because rights exist fundamentally to propagate utility.
That if a right didn't have any utility attached to it, there's no reason that we would have to protect it, there's no reason that we would have to uphold it and so we think that the same goes with speech.
Hate speech is something that is objectively disutile within a society.
The reason for this is that we think the utility of speech comes from the ability to spread and share ideas, to have a more robust a sphere of discourse within our society and to create a world in which those ideas can prosper, in which more people can become knowledgeable, in which more people can share their views, in which we can find better solutions to the problems that we face.
But hate speech has a chilling effect on such ideas.
When someone comes out and does something like say, burn a cross on on a yard, it has a chilling effect.
It's an avenue of expressing your speech.
It's an avenue of expressing your beliefs but it it closes people off from that from that discourse.
It closes people off from that sphere of ideas and discussion and we think that this is ultimately a disutile use of speech and so in in instances like this, we think that despite contacts, despite where it's occurring, that speech should always be censored.
But we also think that there are certain places in which censorship is perfectly acceptable because of the context.
For example: there are children's television networks that exist in almost every country and on those networks we think it's fine to censor things like nudity or vulgarity and this is because in the context of where these things are occurring these are problematic ideas that otherwise we wouldn't want to have propagated as a society.
That for example parents wouldn't want their children to be exposed to and that's censorship as well.
Censoring things in the particular context in which they exist.
Ending censorship would mean that in any sort of sphere, where any person is around, you could spread any sort of idea or have speech to an unlimited capacity.
We think that this isn't feasible for parents, this isn't feasible for our society, and we think that overall it's good to have certain spheres in which you can exist in the safety of knowing that certain things are not going to be exposed to you, in which your children are not going to be exposed to certain things and we think that censorship overall at least when it is limited as far as it's obstruction, is something that is a positive.
For these reasons, we should not end censorship.