We should not privatize the military.
So in this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think privatizing the military compared to the status quo in most countries where you have a public military, it's run by the government, it's it's a volunteer army of people that join the army, it's a public institution.
It has recourse that can be taken in public spheres so we think that's a preferable system.
Firstly we think that this increases the size of the military broadly and we think that it's not just the united states that has a massive military, this isn't just going to be a US centric argument, but rather we think that in the current globalized world it is highly unnecessary to have a large standing army.
Most countries are so interconnected economically both economically and as far as their development as far as their trade as far as trying to accomplish goals together, they're united through various treaties.
We think that actual large scale large scale war by major powers is highly unlikely anytime in the near future and we think that the having a system with a privatized military incentivizes military buildup.
It incentivizes expansion.
It incentivizes having a large showing the government that there's a large need for spending and things like this.
It has a cost associated with it as well that is that is is being paid by the public.
We think that there's as much incentive to build up the military as possible when you have a private system because it encourages more people to be employed, it grows your economic productivity, and these are things that we think are just unnecessary in a globalized world.
We also think it it removes military decisions from public checks and accountability.
If you are the general that's the head of this private military, well you can certainly be removed but there's not a lot of recourse directly in the same way whereas if you have the status quo and say america where the president is the one that's making final military decisions there's a direct election that you can have to choose whether or not you approve or disapprove of the actions that a president is taking militarily.
Whereas maybe a general can be removed from office in some sort of strange scheme or maybe as part of a funding plan that general needs to be removed, something like that.
But this isn't equivalent in any meaningful way to the direct check that the people have on how the military is going about its business and the ability to to pull a president out of office.
Finally we think that it's just necessary in modern statehood for the state to direct actions regardless.
If you had a private military making decisions as far as US foreign policy, as far as when and where we are going to strike if all these types of things, that would be insanity.
No one would take that military legitimately and it would be viewed more as a threat than anything else to national security.
And because of that we think that if you have some sort of privatized military scheme where you're basically just contracting out to mercenaries for every single thing you need done, you might as well have your own training your own people a system that has consistently shown to work if you're talking about developed nations with large militaries in the status quo like the united states.
A system that is shown to produce effective soldiers that shown to ensure that state secrets remain in house for the part for the most part that allows for faster action when needed and more direct legislative and executive control.
These are things that are preferable in making decisions in times of war that would just take more time if there is some sort of directive mercenary system with a privatized military and we think it's just not feasible to have a real system with a privatized military and it's less democratic, it's likely more costly.
For these reasons we should not privatize the military.