We should not subsidize student loans.
We're going to make three main arguments about why we shouldn't subsidize student loans in this debate.
The first is about college is overrated, the second is about how people voluntarily and consensually take out these loans, and the third is that this is only likely to lead to higher tuition costs.
So let's walk through that one by one.
First, we think that when you subsidize student loans, ultimately what you do is provide additional incentives for people to go to college.
And while this may seem good on the surface, it's important to recognize that college graduates are not significantly more well-off than people that go to things like trade schools, that go into professional and vocational training.
Yes, it is the case that people with college degrees perform better, make more money than people that just have high school degrees, but there are many ways to get training outside of high school that don't require you to take out tens of thousands of dollars in loans in order to attend a high quality university.
We think that college has been massively overrated by our society.
Look at just the unemployment numbers amongst college-educated graduates.
Look at the fact that many people that go to college end up majoring in things that aren't going to serve them any meaningful purpose and that many of the most successful people in our country today are self-made.
They learned, yes, somewhat in school, but they also just had a thirst for knowledge and they taught themselves skills that allowed them to succeed.
We think that we should be more focused, as a society, on building those skills rather than forcing people through institutions that ultimately drain valuable resources that otherwise could be used for things like vocational training, for things like improving education for those that can't afford to go to college.
Because no matter how much you subsidize student loans, there are many people that are going to be priced out from college, and we think they deserve the focus, not those that can afford university.
Secondly, people that took out student loans did so voluntarily.
They knew the potential benefits of college.
They knew the intense amounts of debt that they would likely need to take on, and they still choose to take on those loans.
They consented into the situation that they are currently in.
They chose to forego more financial flexibility in their future, more financial freedom, in order to get that education and to have that college experience.
And while that was probably valuable to many of those people, we don't think the fact that it may not have been valuable to some or the fact that people are struggling now removes the consensual nature of taking on those loans.
And if every time someone took on loans that they didn't want to pay, the government would be paying trillions of dollars every year in order to pay off the loans of every single person.
Singling out student loans and saying we're going to help these people is not principally just and it's not something that we think is deserved by them.
Thirdly, we think that when you raise when you create subsidies for student loans, ultimately what you're going to do is lead to higher tuition costs, because colleges know people'll be able to take out more loans.
College tuition is already staggeringly high, but yet those rates, those costs, continue to go up each and every year.
Colleges know, because of how hyped up college is, because there's so much social pressure to go to college, that you're going to have immensely high that you can put out immensely high costs and still drive attention.
And when you subsidize student loans, that's only that much more that colleges can afford to raise their prices.
We would much rather have a system in which you regulated colleges in order to lower their tuition costs than to subsidize people taking out loans that they simply cannot and should not be taking out.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize student loans.