Tattoos should not be banned.
In this round, what the government has done is shown you a number of different marginal areas in which tattoos can have some bad decisions, but the truth about tattoos is that most people that get tattoos are not in a gang, do not go to go to regret the tattoo that they have, and ultimately do so in a clean and safe manner.
The vast majority of these cases are like that.
We think that legislating a ban, violating bodily autonomy in order to prevent marginal marginal risks in edge cases are ridiculous statements to make, and therefore the government is not justified in doing so.
So let's go through the arguments one by one.
The first argument the government side makes is that there are many health risks to tattoos, that many parlors aren't safe or clean and that you can get things like infections from tattoos.
So, first, if the government needs to intervene, if the situation is that bad, you can address this through regulation rather than a ban, which does a good job of balancing risk as well as ensuring that people are still allowed to have their bodily autonomy, that the government is not infringing on someone's fundamental right to choose what to do with their body but still protecting them from unforeseen consequences of those decisions.
But we actually think that in today's day and age, most people are able to avoid things like unclean tattoo parlors, because there are a number of sites like yelp that allow people to aggregate the information of the general public and find the tattoo parlors and find the areas that allow them to make informed choices about the relative safety of their actions, and allow them to be an informed decision-makers and, ultimately, allow them to not face these consequences.
So we think these risks are actually going down in today's day and age and, therefore, this is just an unnecessary ban.
This gets us to the argument that the government makes that because there is a marginal risk but there is no benefit to tattoos, that the government is justified in doing this because what's the harm?
We think that this is absolutely ludicrous.
Just because the government debater doesn't believe that there's a benefit to tattoos doesn't mean that people aren't enjoying these tattoos and don't get some sort of visceral benefit out out of them or mental benefit.
All value in the world is essentially derived.
Aside from the very basic things that sustain us, all of the value that we gain in our life, all of the benefits are what we dictate to be valuable and beneficial.
Many people have strong ties to their tattoos.
Many people are proud of their tattoos, gain immense happiness from their tattoos, enjoy the fact that they're able to express art or other types of things with their body.
We think it's ludicrous to say that there are no benefits at all from tattoos just because you don't physically need a tattoo in order to sustain yourself.
There's no benefits to the vast majority of the media we consume and the vast majority of jobs we do, but to say that all of society has no benefit is an argument into absurdity, and therefore we think that just because there is marginal risk doesn't mean that there's no benefit, and we think that the benefits for many largely outweigh those risks.
The next argument that they make is that people make bad decisions in that tattoos are largely permanent and you shouldn't be able to make decisions for your future self.
We let people make decisions for their future selves all the time.
I'm allowed to take on student loans as a college student.
I'm allowed to take out a mortgage as a young person.
I'm allowed to do a number of different things that will constrain my future self, but we allow bodily autonomy to outweigh these constraints, and we allow personal freedom to outweigh these constraints.
This argument can essentially justify any sort of government intervention, which leads to tyranny, and we think is essentially unjust.
The final argument is that tattoos are connected to crime.
We think that this is such a small minority of instances.
And if this is true, you can ban a specific tattoo, like a gang sign, but you don't need to ban tattoos altogether.
And for these reasons, tattoo should not be banned.