We should legalize same-sex marriage.
We want to define exactly what we're talking about in this round.
We think that when we're talking about the legalization of same-sex marriage, we're confining it explicitly to marriage that is sanctioned by the government.
We don't really care what churches themselves decide to do and what religious organizations want to do.
We're saying that if the government is going to recognize marriage, in general, and provide benefits that come along with marriage and privileges that come along with marriage legally, it must accept the marriage of of same-sex individuals to each other, and that's what we're talking about in this round.
Okay, so two main arguments: the first is about equality under the law and why a just state would demand that we allow same-sex marriage, and the second is about why, just straight up, being LGBT is not something that is immoral, it's not something that we should condemn as a state, and it's something that we shouldn't try and make it legal through our laws.
It's just not a moral act that is worth condemning or not a moral act in general.
Okay.
So equality under the law: we think churches should be allowed to do whatever they want.
But once marriage is a legal institution, you need to allow equal access to all people.
The fundamental the fundamental underpinnings of a just state is that a just state reacts equally and responsibly and in the same measure to all people that are under its control, that it ensures that there are the same legal protections that are made available to all people despite what they might believe, despite what they might feel, despite the backgrounds that they might have, that a just state does not differentiate between different classes and groups of people based on inalienable aspects about who they are.
Given that this is the case, what are some of those things that the that the state actually gives when two people are married?
It gives certain tax breaks, it gives spousal benefits that range from being able to visit your spouse when you're in a hospital, to being able to gain your spouse's estate when they die, all these types of things that, legally, two spouses can combine and two spouses can do together are denied in the status quo to LGBT people.
We think that these are fundamental aspects of life: fundamental aspects of being in a committed relationship to one another is being able to make these legal commitments to one another.
And when the state denies that from these people, it's denying a very fundamental part of the relationships that we hold dear in our lives.
We think that no just state can discriminate based on these standings, and there's no harm to anyone else's marriage by allowing two people that love each other, two consenting individuals, from being together.
Given that the state gives benefits based on these things and that marriage, at its very core, is just a union between two people in a legal sense, we see no reason why you should make an arbitrary distinction between two people that want to combine their their lives and their union, who are of different genders and who are of the same gender.
All right, secondly, we don't think that being LGBT is immoral.
When the government chooses to pass some sort of a law to say that certain things must be prohibited, it de facto comes with this moral underpinning that there is something wrong about the action that we are trying to prevent, that it harms other people's freedoms or their well-beings and for that reason, we're trying to prevent these types of things.
Having someone be married to someone else of the same gender does not do any of these types of things to any other individual.
We think, however, that consenting adults should be able to do whatever they want with whomever they choose as long as they are in a consensual relationship and they are consenting to what they bring upon each other.
We think that the way of thinking about sexuality that springs up and that is the underpinning of marriage is far outdated.
It's something that we had an old way of thinking about, a rigidity about sexuality as something that is binary, and there's only one normal way for it to be, but this isn't how human brain chemistry works.
This isn't how human biology works.
It's all based on fundamental misunderstandings that come from a bygone day.
In our modern times, we think we should reflect what we know about humanity, that sexuality is fluid, that two people of the same gender can love each other and that there is nothing wrong with these relationships.
We think that those are the morals that the state should reflect.
And beyond that, in order to be just, the state must extend these benefits to same-sex individuals.
For these reasons, we should legalize same-sex marriage.