We should not increase reforestation.
Now, to be clear at the very top, we don't think that the current degradation of our land, the current degradation of the environment is preferable to a world in which it was less degraded.
We don't think that it's a system that is sustainable.
We don't think that it is something that we can just sit by and ignore.
The change is being caused by global warming, the change is being caused by manmade action.
We think that reforestation has a number of questions involved with it, ethical dilemmas, and and and scientific issues that come that arise as well that make it a system that is less preferable than continuing the status quo in regards to reforestation, trying to ensure that as you remove forest, you're trying to replant from those trees that are in the area, from those plants that are in the area.
But active reforestation of areas that have long gone by, we don't think it is a sustainable idea, we don't think it's a good idea, and we think it's preferable to focus that political will on doing things against carbon emission and reducing carbon emission.
We think that that is ultimately what's going to have a larger impact on the outcomes that are derived from global warming.
We think that there's a limited amount of political will, especially because many of these things involve going against big business, and we think you should focus on that instead, focus that political will on reducing carbon emissions.
So what are those kind of ethical dilemmas I was speaking of?
Well, first, many reasons that reforestation occurs is not just because of development but because of how various cultures treat the land that they live in.
So various cultures plant, for example, in a certain way in which they burn the field after they've after they've gained their crop in order to to basically clean it dry in order to remove anything that's growing in the area, and they move from one area to the next, and eventually that cleansing of, you know, revokes the soil.
It allows it to be plantable again, but it doesn't create a really sustainable pattern.
You often end up losing more land than you're putting into it.
There's also strip farming.
There's people that are that move from place to place, different nomadic nomadic cultures.
We think that these kind of cultural clashes with the process of reforestation is something that invades these areas, these cultural areas, with thoughts of the outside world, with considerations for the outside world, but these are never areas that have been given preference when their considerations were in concern.
We think that the issues that we are facing are not caused by these cultural groups but rather by the larger actions of industrial nations.
And in that case, we don't think that those people should be forced to bear the burden and change their cultural practices.
Another issue is just, scientifically, it's difficult to know which species to plan, and introducing invasive species into these ecosystems can, in fact, do more damage to the forest.
It can do more damage in the long run than just leaving the earth scorched.
For example, if you if you plant a tree that is an invasive species and ends up growing taller than the other trees, blocking out the sunlight of those trees, and causing them to die, and then eventually spreading itself, you've an entirely new forest that isn't built to sustain the wildlife that exists there.
And this isn't just about trees, it's about introducing all sorts of different plants and life into these areas.
But it's difficult to know what grew there, especially in areas that have been long been stripped of everything that was there before, and when you're bringing these things in from from the outside world, it's difficult to have the exact the exact plants that you want.
It's difficult to ensure that what you're doing is accurate, especially when it's not being done with the consent of the people that live in these areas, which is often the case.
So for all these reasons, we should not increase reforestation.