We should not abolish electronic voting.
We think that in this round what's most important is a couple of things.
First, to increase voter turnout.
We think that it's important to have high voter turnout because that is the way that people are able to show their consent for the state.
We think that in order for the state to be meaningfully just it needs to be controlled by its constituents in the way that's constituents take control and show their participation is through voting.
It's by selecting candidates that they think represent them best.
So whatever turns out more turnout we think that that is a preferable system.
Secondarily, we think people need to have an idea of confidence in the results of elections.
We think that in even in recent history people have felt like democratic systems are failing them that there's a strained relationship right now with our democracy and we think that in order to prove that you need to have voter confidence.
We think that this is something in which electronic voting can actually do a great deal of good.
As long as you keep the machines that are doing these this this type of voting off the off the internet so they can't be hacked, they can't be tampered with.
As long as you put these security measures in place, the actual results that are coming out are likely to be more legitimate than if you're using paper ballots or you're having people count these types of things by hand.
Using computers just more accurate.
It's more capable of doing a vote count without having sort of any confusion about the ballots that are being cast.
There's no hanging chad that exists anymore when you have electronic voting and you have and easier understanding of how to vote.
It's a very simple process with electronic with electronic ballots and electronic voting rather than doing it by hand through old fashioned systems and so when people know that when when individuals are going into the voting booth they're actually voting correctly.
They're voting for the candidate that they want to have and that those votes are being counted accurately.
We think you increase voter confidence and we think increasing voter confidence is part of what increases turnout.
When you have an idea that your vote is actually being counted, that these types of things are going to be run fairly and accurately, there's more trust in the government.
There's more of an idea that you feel like your participation matters, that your vote actually counts and so we think electronic voting increase in accuracy, increase in ease of use, means that more people are likely to turn out to vote.
We also think that you just get quicker results.
It's a more efficient system.
We think that technology has giving us the ability to do things more efficiently and this is certainly the case over recent human history.
We don't think that there's a reason to turn against this when it comes to electronic voting.
At the end of the day, even if you were to take away electronic voting it's likely gonna create very similar outcomes and it's only going to make take a longer time with more like with a higher likelihood that people are going to challenge the results of these elections.
So we think that given the trade-off as far as accuracy and as far as what the results in end term what the what the final ballot count is going to look like, given that there's very little difference there, aside from we think higher turnout with electronic voting, we don't think it's a reason we don't think there's any reason to abolish it.
We don't think there's any positive reason to take this thing away and we think that people have grown more accustomed to this system and it should be continued.
For these reasons, we should not abolish electronic voting.