We should end censorship.
We think that censorship broadly occurs for two reasons.
One, it's to block inappropriate material or material that's deemed inappropriate from the public for being out there, and it also blocks the spread of certain ideas.
We think that both of these are incredibly bad.
So first, let's talk about the benefits of free speech because there's tons of benefits that we can be first, free speech and a lack of censorship allows for an immense spread of ideas.
It allows for people to discuss things openly without fear of being censored, without fear of being arrested for expressing their views, and this means that you have a more open society.
When more people are allowed to spread their ideas it first if those ideas truly are problematic we think that people ultimately rise up to strike those ideas down and this is preferable to those ideas hiding in the shadows because censorship doesn't wipe out bad thoughts and bad ideas but it only puts them into secluded corners of society where they can fester and ultimately become much much worse but on the flip side, there's also the benefit of allowing a more open approach to society more ideas to spread.
More communication, we think, leads to be more understanding and an increase in culture and an increase in creating empathy amongst people.
Whereas censorship only leads to a lack of understanding and a lack of communication.
We also think that censorship often stops the spread of knowledge.
New ideas and new scientific understandings for the world have often historically been censored by the state and this has led to decades of lagging behind other states, of lagging behind in the scientific progress that we otherwise could have made because we weren't because people weren't allowed to spread those ideas, facts that they knew to be true.
Even when it comes to things like speech that we censor we think this allows for better cultural communication and in these instances we would say it's not the job of the government to dictate what is proper and what is not.
If I want to go on TV and swear, I don't understand why it's the government's job to say that that is something that is inappropriate for the public to hear.
We think there are simply huge benefits from having these ideas and these thing spread amongst our society.
You get better relations between people.
You've a more informed and a more productive public and all these things are huge benefits.
We also think that secondarily, censorship leads to an easy abuse by the state.
The state has immense power and a massive course of apparatus that is largely unchecked within its borders.
Many states have strict censorship to block unflattering information from being disseminated.
Look at states like china and states like north korea that have huge control over what information their people are allowed to learn.
This undermines the ability for public to be informed and thus, they use and thus be able to use their power of collective self-determination.
If you can't understand the world around you, if you have large gaps in the information about how the world works because the government is censoring that information, it means that you can't make a fully informed decision and can't accurately and appropriately express that power of collect self collective self-determination which in turn means that the state itself must be unjust and simply a coercive cartel that's controlling the minds of its people.
Even if you're not talking about countries like china and north korea, developed countries like the united states and european nations block information about the actions of political issue officials, their ties with businesses and special interests all the time and this is crucial information for people being for for people to have in order to make an informed decision.
We think that censorship is ultimately and overwhelmingly a tool for state abuse and that even in instances where we may think it's acceptable, we don't think it's the job of the government to censor.
For these reasons, we should end censorship.