We should not end the use of economic sanctions.
So before we get into responding to the government side's arguments, we want to lay out why sanctions are good and when they are used.
Because recognize that no matter what we do, whether we use economic sanctions or not, economic sanctions rise out of an international an an international community that itself is always going to be combative and is always going to be jostling between states for resources, for power, for any number of different things, and so negotiation or inter-state interaction is going to have to happen no matter what.
And let's look historically at what has been done when these two states when two states or two or more states have conflict.
Well, one, sometimes they go to war.
We think that, clearly, economic sanctions are a preferable action to literally going to war and causing the deaths of just as many innocent civilians, as well as many, many more many, many more people that are in your army or in your navy or whatnot, and we think that war's just significantly more destructive for both parties than sanctions.
But the other thing that people often do is they try to resolve their issues through diplomacy, through negotiation, through bartering.
But, frankly, there are times in which diplomacy simply doesn't work if there is no teeth, if there's no backing to it.
If your negotiations don't matter, you can never get other countries to stop their actions, because at the end of the day, you can't do anything to stop them.
But that's where sanctions come in handy.
Sanctions are a great middle ground between literally going to war and trying to negotiate but never getting anywhere.
And we think that that's when sanctions are most used.
Frankly, sanctions do instrumentalize people within the countries that are being sanctioned.
It instrumentalizes them to act, to rise up, to have a lower quality of life, and then to go against their go against their leaders in order to make their suffering stop.
But as a state, in a realist world, we think it's important that you fundamentally prioritize the benefits of your state and your citizens.
And in these instances in which sanctions are being used, these are often instances where security of your citizens is at risk or the well-being of your citizens is at risk, and in those times, sanctions are a good way to address that harm while still doing less harm than you otherwise would if you went to war with that other country.
So let's respond directly to the government's arguments.
First, they say it's ineffective.
If the goal is to force a country to change their behavior, dictatorial regimes just point to the west as a scapegoat, and they don't care about their populace so so at the end of the day, it doesn't matter.
So, first, whether or not the dictator cares about their populace, the people care about their populace.
And if many people are suffering and the dictator can't provide for those people, eventually that dictator is going to lose power, especially when it means that the sanctions not only affect the dictator, but the average person that is in that dictator's army, who is who is giving that dictator the ability to oppress its people.
But additionally, scapegoating is working less and less in the time of the internet when information is more readily available worldwide.
And, empirically, it has worked before.
Look at how sanctions brought iran to the table to seriously negotiate about nuclear weapons and nuclear and their nuclear development program with the united states.
So, the next argument they make is that this just hurts the worst off.
First, in the long run, it can help the worst off if you get better regime or better action from the regime, but as I already stated, cross apply what I said, the state shouldn't care about foreign actors when it comes to the cost of their own citizens.
Finally, it says it hurts the government says that it hurts the country that actually is putting the sanctions on another country because it lowers trade.
Frankly, sanctions are only ever used in instances in which there's a power imbalance, because your sanctioning of that country does more harm to it than to you.
So sanctions, honestly, for the most part, have a negligible impact on the economy, especially when the dynamic is one of the united states versus iran, which is more common than iran versus iraq.
For these reasons, we should not end the use of economic sanctions.