High school should not be mandatory.
In this round we're gonna make four main arguments about why we think that at parental discretion children should be allowed to leave high school.
When a parent consents, when a parent says that this is okay, we think that children should be able to leave high school.
So a few arguments.
First we think that children are still free agents, they're still individual beings that can make rational rational choices though they may not have the life experience to make longitudinal choices but they can make rational choices and they're still free agents especially when you're talking about high schooler.
Talking about people that are sixteen and up which is generally the line at which people are able to leave high school in most in in in most of the united states for example.
We think that these are people that are able to work, they're able to go out into the workforce, they're able to take care of themselves, they're able to fend for themselves, they can by all accounts live an adult life style and for the vast majority of human existence if you were sixteen you were an adult.
You're out working, laboring, having a family, these types of things.
There's nothing physiological about being a sixteen year old that means that you aren't able to take care of yourself and make decisions for yourself and while we certainly think that high school can be good, we don't think it's the job of the government to say how peoples' lives are supposed to be on a certain track but rather we think that the government should be doing things to promote freedom.
When people consent into the state, they do so to secure their freedom.
They give up absolute an idea of absolute freedom in which you can do anything you want to to a world in which you have secured freedom where maybe you can't do everything you want but you can do most of what you want without other people impeding on those actions.
And we think that leaving high school should be one of those things.
If you as a sixteen year old hate being in high school, if you're not getting anything out of it, if you're fighting with your teachers with your parents, if you're not doing the work you need to do to graduate or to get good grades, you might as well let that child go out into the workforce.
They're clearly not gaining anything valuable from the high school experience and they are capable of making a living for themselves, of going on and doing things for themselves.
We also think that parents can be a great check on bad decisions.
So if you are a child that clearly has no aspirations, if you're just going to sit at home and you know sit on the computer all day and do nothing, if you're not to provide for yourself when you leave high school, we think parents can be a check on that.
Parents can say no you must continue to go to high school at least until you're eighteen and then you're no longer our responsibility but we think that parents can be a good check on this and parents are more familiar with their children.
Some children have for example certain skills that allow them to be profitable in the workplace.
Maybe you're a fifteen year old but you've also been studying coding since you were ten and you're able to go out and and build a website.
You're able to build a business in your own community online doing certain things.
You can support yourself and you don't need to spend that time in high school not getting anything out of that experience.
Parents are always going to be more knowledgeable in these situations than the state so having a blanket ban via the state means that many instances where that ban shouldn't be applied, the ban on leaving high school in this instance, we think that in many instances that ban shouldn't be applied and parents can effectively be that ban but allow those situations to slip through the cracks when need be.
And finally high school just isn't for everyone.
There are many many children that just spend their time in high school not trying to learn, not taking it seriously, not doing the work and they hate the entire experience.
We think that in those instances aside from a piece of paper you're not getting really any valuable life skills, any education.
You're not doing anything productive and in those instances children should be allowed to leave.
For these reasons high school should not be mandatory.