Should not criminalize victim blaming.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think it would be both unjust and impractical to criminalize victim blaming.
So, first, let's talk about the freedom of speech.
We think that as a fundamental tenet of liberal thought, freedom of speech is an incredibly important right that is afforded to individuals.
Freedom of speech allows for robust political discussion.
It allows for robust self-expression.
It allows for people to live the lives that they wish to live and to express their thoughts, to express who they are to other individuals.
But sometimes, it's not going to be pretty to see people express who they are.
It's not going to be something that everyone wants to hear, but in order for freedom of speech to have any sort of teeth, in order for it to have meaning, we can't simply punish people because they say things that we disagree with or because they say things that may make us unhappy.
These are things that we don't think are are compatible with a robust with a real freedom of speech, and we think that victim blaming falls along those lines.
We think that it's certainly true that it's unfortunate to see people like newscasters go on TV and blame women when they're victims of sexual assault, but we think that's we think that that is within their rights to do as a piece of opinion.
We think that people don't need to watch those shows.
We think that for their in order for people to express their opinion, sometimes you need to let people express opinions that you disagree with.
The fact that I, personally, am uncomfortable with that, the fact that the person who's the victim may be uncomfortable with that is not something that we afford a right for.
There's no right to be comfortable, there's only a right to live your life.
There's a right to express yourself as you see fit.
So we also think that there's just no way to actually implement this law in a just way, and implementation is crucial to adjust criminal justice system.
If you're applying the law with various standards in various different places, to various degrees of of of of solidarity to like what this law is, it means that certain people are being punished in one instance but are not in others.
It means that you don't have an equal application of the law for all people, and we think that that is fundamentally unjust.
It means you don't have a justice system.
It means that you have a weapon of the state to dictate who will and who will not be punished.
And we think that even if you could implement it in a perfect way, what standard can you set for when someone is victim blaming?
At what point is someone going from giving the context of what happened in a situation to victim blaming?
At what point does it become heinous enough that you can actually say that this is a criminal offense?
We think that there's no real standard, and that's one of the reasons why putting limits on freedom of speech is so difficult, because there's a lot of gray area when we have discussions that involve the freedom of speech.
There's a lot of gray area in how we view the world.
We don't just see what people are saying and think it's either absolutely heinous and a hundred percent of people agree that it's absolutely heinous, or it's a-okay.
Most things fall right in the middle there, and we think that in these instances, such as victim blaming, that's one of those in which this is a gray area.
It's something that some people think is important.
It's something that people think must be reported on, and though I might not sure that opinion, it doesn't mean that it is fair or just to criminalize something like free speech.
And for these reasons, we should not criminalize victim blaming.