We should increase the use of background checks.
So, in this round, we're gonna put forward two main ways of increasing the use of background checks.
The first is that we think that all jobs should require background checks on employees before they're hired.
For any job that doesn't have this, we think that they should should start adopting these things, and we should also have universal background checks for anyone that wants to purchase a firearm.
Now this debate isn't about mandating these things, though we'd be fine with having some some sort of government mandate to do so.
We just think that, as a general principle, these two things should be adopted as the norm.
So, first, we think that requiring background checks for all employers removes corporations from liability and to prevent long term costs from accumulating on those corporations.
Let's think of the type of things that could bring some sort of harm onto an employer.
A previous criminal record may make an employee difficult to work with.
It may force them to be limited in the amount of work that they can do.
It may stop them from going across state lines.
It may mean that they have certain privileges that they cannot do.
It also may mean that different people that you interact with as a business may not want to work with that person.
And more specifically, if they have some sort of a criminal record that has to do with, say, theft, that has to do with bribery, that has to do with malpractice in a corporation, these are types of things that are crucial to know in order to protect your business and your assets from any sort of potential liability of that person.
And we think that it's perfectly reasonable for corporations to request of someone that they're about to give a job to, they're about to give a benefits package to, they're about to be giving a paid salary to, we think it's perfectly reasonable that corporations request of those people some sort of background check to ensure that they're hiring someone that they who is who that is who they say they are, that is the person that they say they are and that isn't trying to hide some sort of skeleton in the closet.
We think that any number of, whether it's a corporation or even a smaller business that's just hiring someone to work within a community, there are a number of reasons why those background checks would be useful, and we think it's generally preferable to remove yourself from a position where you could be liable for harm than to get into that without any sort of knowledge beforehand.
So as far as universal background checks for firearms, we think it's incredibly crucial to prevent those arms from getting into the hands of bad people.
For example, if you're on a terrorist watchlist or if you're someone that has a previous criminal record and has been known to done harm in the past, even if it wasn't with a firearm.
Maybe you were you were convicted in the past or brought to trial in the past for domestic assault.
Well, we still think that you probably shouldn't be able to have a firearm.
And while there are certain rights that are in place to allow people to have firearms, those rights come with stipulations all the time.
They come with the the idea that you will be responsible with that firearm.
And with the immense propagation of firearms in the united states, a country where there's more than one gun for every single person in the state, we think it's important that those guns don't get into the hands of people that are going to use them poorly.
We think that with the immense amount of gun violence that exists in the united states, that background checks would be an effective measure to begin addressing that and to begin cutting back on that, and we think it's, again, a common sense measure that doesn't violate anyone's fundamental rights and only ensures that there's nothing they're hiding behind closed doors.
For these reasons, we should increase the use of background checks.