We should abandon social media.
In this debate, we're going to present you with two main arguments as to why social media is a net harm in the world and why we shouldn't be using it.
The first is about social harms, and the second is about productivity harm.
So on the social harms: we think that the way that social media has risen up in our society is a way in which people have become largely immersed and dependent upon it, that people quantify their social relationships through social media, that people categorize them through social media and they understand them through social media, and that the vast majority of people, if they want to have a social a social relationship with someone, they need to be connected in some way with them through social media, otherwise people end up being left behind because they simply don't adopt the newest trends, the newest forms of communication, the newest mediums of interpersonal relationship, and this means you get left by the wayside.
So why do we think this is problematic?
We think that this clearly dampens interactions that happen in real life, between two physical people, because there's there's just a significant difference between the interaction you can have on social media and the interaction you have in real life.
Social media reactions are often much more vapid, for example, liking someone's post on facebook or retweeting something.
This is a very vapid interaction that doesn't prepare you to have a meaningful conversation, a meaningful building of a social relationship between you and another person.
There's also, for example, if you're messaging someone or commenting, these are things that are very different from trying to hold a conversation one on one.
And because people become dependent on social media, there's a tradeoff between them being skilled in that form of communication and the form of communication that allows you to be an interpersonal human being, relating with people on one on one situations.
We also think it quantifies interactions in a bad way.
People tend to prioritize meaningless things, such as likes and follows, overbuilding deep relationships with a few people.
And people that have only a hundred friends on facebook, or people that don't have a lot of posts or don't have a lot of retweets or interactions, all these things, these people are seen as outside of the norm and then people crave to be within the norm.
People crave to have that type of following, that type of social media presence.
But these aren't things that are intrinsically valuable.
These aren't things that provide meaning and strong relationships in someone's life in the same way that fostering a relationship in which you truly know another person, and you can talk to them about anything with a few people, can be truly meaningful and uplifting in a person's life.
We think that social media dampens those types of relationships, and we think that in those ways, it's problematic.
So, on to productivity harms, we think there are a few of them.
Firstly, because people end up posting things on social media that can literally never go away, we think that people are often denied job or other opportunities that can allow them to become more financially well-off, more socially well-off, and put them in a better stable situation in their life moving forward.
We think that by not using social media, you don't set yourself up to this kind of public disgrace, public embarrassment, that social media can often provide.
We also think that it is just a massive distraction.
In your free time, you could be doing this in you can be spending your free time in a number of other more productive ways.
You could spend it learning, you could learn it you could spend it being active, going outside, being a physical human being, or just building real physical connections with other people, and building memories.
These are things that you just don't do on social media.
And at work, these are also major distractions.
Things that cost millions of dollars on the like whole social market, or the whole marketplace, in a country when people are spending time at work that they otherwise are supposed to be spending being productive, doing their labor, spending it on social media.
Because it's harmful to both social interactions and productive capacities of people, we should abandon social media.