We should abolish capital punishment.
We would say that capital punishment is never deserved within the criminal justice system.
That capital punishment is one form of punishment that cannot be warranted no matter the action you commit, and we think that this is something that is currently being done that is inhumane in our criminal justice system.
So that's what we're going to talk about in this debate.
First, why this isn't humane and second why people do not bear enough responsibility to warrant this as a proportional punishment.
Okay, aren't being inhumane: murders as an act is something that is fundamentally morally repugnant.
No matter what moral system you choose to adopt murder is something that we always view as a moral wrong.
It is always something that is only done as a last resort and maybe it can be balanced by certain actions, but it certainly isn't something that we would say is a positive good.
We think that there is, when you say that someone deserves capital punishment, you are saying that there is no value at all for the life of the person that has been convicted.
That there's no redeeming quality about this person.
That there's no chance of this person can be rehabilitated.
That there's nothing human about this person anymore.
There's no hope for this person.
We think that that intrinsically dehumanizes these people, and is a bad thing for the for the justice system to go out and start doing.
To start setting that standard.
It also forces another person to take the life of the convicted, which we think is forcing them to take a morally repugnant act.
And something that can be avoided through extended sentences.
Long jail time, even if you just wanna punish.
Finally, it repeats the cycle of violence that is likely being targeted for punishment to begin with.
It's saying: " murder is bad.
Murder something that should not occur, and as a way to make it right, we are going to continue to murder. "
We think that this is illogical at the very least, and as I've already explained dehumanizes people by saying that their life simply has no worth.
Finally, it doesn't give the chance for someone who's been convicted at rehabilitation and there's no way to undo this type of harm.
You can't appeal, you can't after a long period of time, if more evidence has come forward, you can't just let the person out.
You can't give them a chance to appeal because they're already dead.
It is an irreversible harm done by a justice system that is clearly fallible.
Maybe in a world in which the justice system is perfect, there's a justification for this.
But in the real world, in the world we live in, where the justice system gets it wrong all the time and bias is a part of decisions that are made by juries on a daily basis, to inflict capital punishment on someone is to simply ignore the facts of how often the justice system gets it wrong.
So secondly on responsibility: we think that capital punishment assumes full responsibility.
It says that that is a proportional punishment that was done because another person has killed someone else, and this is what is fair.
But we think that it is the case that the convicted is likely not fully responsible for their actions.
We think it is much more likely the case that a combination of their nature, what they were biologically pre predisposed to do, and the upbringing that they had is something that probably need them more likely to be violent.
Made them more likely to be in a situation where they would need to murder.
Where they would see that as an end that needed to be done and these are not things that anyone had any sort of control over.
What they were predisposed to do is not something that someone has any sort of meaningful consent towards or any sort of control over.
And this doesn't mean that they have no responsibility, but it means that they aren't fully responsible for the action they've undertaken.
And if they aren't fully responsible for that action then we think it was unjust for them to bear the full brunt of the crime, which is essentially what this does.
It is what capital punishment does.
It says: " we are going to fully give you what you have done to another because you are fully responsible for what was done to that other by you. "
This is not the case and this does not reflect the human experience, on top of the fact that the criminal justice system is fallible and it dehumanizes people when capital punishment is inflicted.
For all these reasons we should abolish capital punishment.