We should criminalize victim blaming.
So the way that we're going to structure this argument is that we're going to say that we would have fines for both media members and public officials that make statements that are victim-blaming, that are coming out and placing any sort of blame on the victim of a crime or any sort of other disaster that befalls someone.
We think it's also important to recognize when this occurs.
Most of the time that this occurs, that victim blaming is prominent on national television, it's for one of two reasons.
It's either for issues of sexual assault and misconduct in which you have someone saying, " oh, she shouldn't have been wearing that.
She shouldn't have been in that position.
She shouldn't have been doing this or that, " as a way to excuse abhorrent behavior by men in these positions, and most of the time, these victims are telling the truth.
Most of the time when women come forward, they're telling the truth in these instances.
So it's important to recognize that people are often doing this in order to discredit the victim in the public eye, especially when it comes to instances of where these are prominent people that are being that are being indicted or being blamed or being accused of sexual assault and misconduct.
So there are many people that will come out and say, " she should not have behaved in that way, " especially conservative pundits in recent years.
And we think that that's incredibly problematic for a couple of reasons.
First, it forces victims to relive the trauma.
In the instances that we're talking about, these are incredibly traumatic events in a person's life.
Your bodily autonomy was violated, your sense of security in yourself and in your body, your sense of control over something as personal as your sexual intimacy has been stripped away from you, and it's incredibly difficult to force someone to relive that.
Even if they're doing so in a courtroom, it's incredibly difficult for those for those people, but to have people come forward on national television, on places like CNN and fox news, and say things like, " oh, she is responsible for the harm that befell her, " is incredibly traumatic.
It makes you feel invalidated.
It makes you feel like you did do something wrong, even though there's nothing wrong about dressing in a particular way, and there's nothing about dressing in a particular way that justifies any person doing anything sexual with you that you do not explicitly consent to.
There is never something that justifies that.
And so we think that it leads to increased trauma for these people that have already been forced to deal with an immense amount of trauma, but the other major problem with this is that it disincentivizes victims from coming forward in the future.
If victims see, time and time again, that every time that they come forward, they are going to be they're going to be subjected to immense amounts of public scrutiny, to media scrutiny, and to people questioning their story, to people saying that they're responsible for the harm that befell them, it leads to a a system in which women just don't want to come forward, in which they feel like they've already been put through so much trauma and so much harm that it doesn't that it's not worth the amount of effort, it's not worth the public scrutiny to come forward.
And this is horrible because most people that do things like this, that do sexually assault and and have sexual misconduct allegations levied against them, don't just do this more than once.
There's often other women out there that are facing the same issues that this one person has, and that person coming out, that victim coming forward, can be the difference between that person going on a rampage and harming even more people in the future and that person having justice brought against them.
For these reasons, we should criminalize victim blaming.