We should end mandatory retirement.
So in this debate we have two main arguments.
The first is about why age based restrictions are essentially problematic, and the secondly is about why it's unfair to workers.
So firstly on age based restrictions.
It's important to recognize that age is always an arbitrary line.
You cannot simply say that all sixty five year olds have certain capabilities and all forty five year olds have certain qualifications and that this is always a universal truth.
That is simply not the case that age is a good approximation for other types of qualities, which means if you set an arbitrary line at when at which someone needs to retire, we think that you're judging all people based on a stereotype and based on a metric that is simply untrue.
We think that arbitrary delineations should not be a part of public policy and that rather other metrics are preferable.
And that's the second thing that is important to recognize, is that age in these types of discussions is always just an approximation for something else.
In this case, it's an approximation for competency and about an approximation of skill, about whether or not someone is actually qualified and capable of serving in their role.
But you can still test for those things in a market that doesn't have mandatory retirement.
Businesses can still phase out workers once they become no longer productive enough to meet bare minimum requirements of a labor and you can still create competitions in the workplace to ensure that people that are no longer skilled cannot serve in the role.
But to say that at age sixty five, or whatever age you set, all people lose the ability to produce and to be effective laborers we think is simply a stereotype and nonsensical.
Yes it is probably true that there are some people that once they hit a certain age are not capable of being productive workers.
But mandatory retirement phases out skilled workers in addition to unskilled workers.
It ends up being a net loss to corporations when otherwise you could simply phase out those that are unskilled and allow those that are still quality employees to work.
We think that you're lessening your labor base and you remove qualified and knowledgeable workers and replace them with workers that are less familiar with the job, less familiar with the company, people that don't have the experience to do the job in the same quality way that people with vast experience those that are retiring are likely going to be able to do.
Alright secondly on why this is unfair to workers.
We think that there are two possibilities of these mandatory retirees.
The first is that they still need money.
They simply don't have the funds to retire and they still need to work.
Well when you force mandatory retirement on them their skills are often nontransferable so they can't just go to another corporation because they have to compete with the younger workforce that otherwise is going to that is going to provide more long term assets to a company and is a better investment for training and things like that.
And oftentimes these people simply don't have the assets to go and acquire new training which means that people that need to work end up being forced into low skilled labor jobs which I think is an inefficient use of their experience, their knowledge, and their worldly time that they spent in any sort of corporate or other job position that they're being forced out of.
We think that this is unfair to workers and we think that if you need to maintain yourself in a job, if you need to continue to work and you have the skill to do so, you should be allowed to do so.
Finally, it is also possibly the case that you don't need to work but because you've been working in a job for so long, your job provides you with meaningful fulfillment.
Again in these cases if you are qualified enough to work, we think it is unfair and irresponsible to strip these people of something that provides them with such fulfillment as a job that they've been invested in for many, many years.
Because age based restrictions are arbitrary and because there are legitimate reasons people may still want to work, we should end mandatory retirement.