We should not abandon voter registration.
So, while we think it's obviously true that the way that countries like the united states do voter registration in the status quo leaves people out of the system, it makes a less open election system, it's something that has many flaws in how it is done, we think that abandoning voter registration altogether is simply not a practical or a proper solution to the problems that plague current systems of voter registration.
So let's talk about why voter registration, in some form, is necessary and, then, how we think it is it is it is possible to fix voter registration problems and and prevent the abuse of the of the current system.
So, what's important to recognize is that elections are the vehicle by which we legitimize democracy.
And what we mean by this is that democracy in and of itself, a system in which you have elected officials, does not matter unless those elections are legitimate.
And this doesn't just mean that people believe that there's faith in the election believe that those elections are legitimate, but that they are also legitimate.
If people believe that those elections are legitimate but they are, in fact, undermined, and they're they're breached by various outside actors, then this means that those elections don't yield the results of the people.
They don't yield the true democratic consensus, and it means you've government by a corrupt system, or a broken system, or an invaded system rather than government by the people.
And so elections are a crucial and fundamental part of our democracy.
Without elections, nothing separates democracy in a meaningful way from an oligarchy or a monarchy that has a a hereditary house of parliament or something like that.
And so, we think it's important to recognize that voter registration is necessary in order to prevent voting abuse.
And so, when you have voter registration in the status quo, you know that the people that are showing up at the voting booth are citizens.
You know they provide some sort of identification, they're on your voter rolls, you know that they belong there.
But if you had no voter registration at all and you just let people walk into vote, come into the voting booth without any sort of check of their identity, or even if you just even if you do check their identity, it's easy enough to falsify documents and show proof of residence, even though you don't actually live in a particular place.
And what this means is that we think it's obviously true that outside actors will try to invade the system.
We already see russian meddling in the US election process in the status quo.
Why wouldn't they try and meddle further if they could literally send agents to vote in a particular way?
And given that most people in the united states don't vote anyway, it's not like they would send some sort of signal if, all of a sudden, a hundred and ten percent of the population was voting, because they don't need to do that much damage.
They don't need to infiltrate to that degree in order to create damage.
So we think that while it may seem like fear like fearmongering, we think it's definitely true that without voter registration, infiltrations into the election system would occur, and people would lose faith in the democratic process.
So what can we do to fix the the current system?
Well, you can have automatic voter voter registration when someone gets a driver's license, when someone moves and they register their new address, you could have automatic voter registration.
You could have same day voter registration and different methods of moving the deadline further back in order for people to register to vote, and you can have more get-out-the-vote efforts to ensure that people are registered when the day comes for the election.
There's many different methods that you can implement in order to improve the current system, but abandoning voter registration altogether is the wrong way to go.
We for these reasons, we should not abandon voter registration.