We should not increase airport racial profiling in the united states.
In the status quo in the united states there's a series of random checks that are done through through airport security when people try to fly and this is wildly known to be done through a racial profiling system in which mostly muslim individuals are targeted or or arabic looking individuals are targeted for their race because of the association between arabic and muslim individuals in the united states imaginary and terrorism.
We think that this is a horrible stigmatization to place on these people and we think furthermore that this process is in the status quo massively ineffective and is only likely to be more ineffective in the future.
For these reasons we simply think that this airport racial profiling should not increase and should not exist in the first place.
So firstly, why it's ineffective.
So studies have shown that profiling has been ineffective in the past.
It leads to a massive expenditure of resources for very little gain because the truth is simply the case that the vast majority of people that you profile are not going to be terrorists.
They are not going to be people trying to commit any type of crime.
Which means that when you increase this process of racial profiling, you necessarily increase expenditures and spending on these types of things, you increase the amount of security that you have, you increase the amount of technology that you have to do screenings and all these things are shown to be mostly unnecessary.
You increase wait and so in addition to all these expenditures there also harms to the people that are trying to fly.
For example, you increase wait times and you increase costs of flights.
Which means that individuals that are trying to fly have a worse time when they're in the airport and end up spending more money when they need to fly.
It also means that when you adopt any sort of increased screening any sort of increased screening program terrorists naturally adopt adopt new practices and new strategies and adapt to whatever is being adopted by the government.
Which is why for the vast majority of terrorist operations don't occur on airplanes.
Because the amount of security that already exists is at such a high level that the likelihood of such a success of some sort of strategic terrorist attack on an airplane is simply very low.
We think that increasing expenditures for this is simply unnecessary.
Airports are just not high targets in the status quo because of the amount of security and for these reasons we think increasing racial profiling is only going to lead to bad outcomes.
Recognize that when you do these things there is a signaling effect that comes with this.
What it means is that when you choose to increase the amount of racial profiling, it signals to everyone else that there is a reason that you need to increase the amount of racial profiling.
That there's a reason that you believe that more muslims or more people that you're going to profile are are terrorists.
That they are people that need to be feared.
And what this means is that the the american people on a whole end up adopting these types of biases.
And we've seen this with the election of donald trump.
Even if donald trump himself hasn't done things that have been particularly effective in targeting minority communities, his supporters have become empowered by the election of him and it signaled to them that the treatment of those people, of minorities and other marginalized communities, the poor treatment of them is acceptable.
Which is why you've seen a spike in hate crimes following the election of donald trump.
We think that maybe this isn't as such a high scale as these as the signaling mechanism as a of a presidential election but there is still a signaling mechanism associated with this and we simply think it's the case that given that most muslims and most of these people aren't terrorists, telling the them that they are more of a risk, that they are an inherent threat to american security, only belittles them and dehumanizes them.
It does so at very little gain to the american public and at a very high cost.
For all of these reasons we should not increase airport racial profiling in the united states.