We should not abolish marriage.
In this round, I'm going to make one broad argument: that marriage is a good social institution, that it leads to better outcomes for both the couple that is married as well as for any children that come out of that couple and the communities that the couple is involved in.
We think that marriage is, on balance, a good that the state should try and promote, and that it leads to better societies and better social outcomes.
So, what do these things look like?
Firstly, in regards to the partners within the marriage: we would say that marriage is incredibly good in order to alleviate the pressure on each spouse to be a major breadwinner.
When you're within a marriage, you can have a system set up in which both people are able to bring in some sort of an income, or even if only one person is bringing in an income, all of those non-monetary needs that a household has can be dealt to.
A partnership, such as a marriage, can allow you to do these types of things that life demands of you: raising money, having a family, having the sort of household that people can look at and be proud of.
These things that people feel the social pressure to have are much easier to attain when you have a spouse.
There's also assistance in long-term planning as to what you want to do with your future and a partner to reduce stress.
All of this is much more likely to be achieved than with a long-term civil union commitment.
As far as as far as the numbers are concerned, yes, divorce rates are incredibly high, but couples that say they're going to be in a long-term stable relationship that are not married, that move in together, say, have a child together, and choose to be in that relationship without being married, have a much higher rate of separation than marriage than married couples do in the same circumstances.
So, all these numbers need to be taken into consideration in comparison to other couples that have long-term plans together but are much more likely to be separated at the end of that.
Speaking of long-term plans, we would say, and the numbers bear this out, that you are more likely to raise children that are successful in a variety of metrics if those children belong to a household with a married couple.
Firstly, as far as school performance is is concerned, they're much more likely to perform well, both in primary and in secondary education.
They're more likely to go to college, and they're more likely to perform well at all of those levels of education, as well as behavioral performance, children are much more likely to be well-behaved than they especially within the classroom.
They're less likely to be convicted of some sort of a crime.
They're less likely to be brought to trial in the first place.
All these things are much the rates of these things are much lower in a household in which the child grows up with both parents who are married.
This is also true in controlled samples when you consider children that grow up in households with two married individuals and children that grow up in a household with a mother and a father who are not married, again, for the reasons I explained earlier, that these couples tend to be less stable and often separate much at a much higher frequency than married couples.
These people are also children of these families are also more likely to have higher future job earnings and are more likely to have stable mental health.
And finally, as far as communities are concerned, we think that families are the bedrock of a community.
Families give people a tie to that community in a way that other individuals within the community don't have.
They're more likely to have children involved in the school system.
They're more likely to have a wide group of friends and associates when they're connected to a wife, to a spouse, to a partner, to a child.
All these things inbed you deeper in the community and make you more likely to advocate to improvements in that community, and make you more likely to care about those people that are around you.
All of these are good social outcomes that are statistically shown to be to accumulate at a higher level when there are higher rates of marriage.
We think that the government should definitely promote this type of union, should promote marriage in any way that it could, and we certainly believe that we should not abolish marriage.