We should not abandon television.
So, the first thing that we want to talk about in this debate before we get into the actual arguments, is that some people may think that in a media environment, there is some sort of competitive trade-off between television and adopting new technologies such as the internet, such as moving over to mobile devices for entertainment, these types of things.
We do not think that is the case.
We think that new media devices are effectively much cheaper than television, and in that sense there's very little investment trade-off between the two businesses, the two types of business models, and we think that in that instance that arguing in favor of television is not in fact necessarily arguing against the internet.
And so we're not going to argue against the internet, we're just going to explain why we think television is a good medium moving forward, and we think it's a good medium in two ways in particular.
First is an entertainment, and the second is a news.
So, firstly on why we think it is simply prolific prolific media for entertainment while there's a few reasons.
Even with new media arising, even with things like netflix and hulu and these types of services massively taking off, it's important to recognize that their model of production, their model of producing entertainment, is still basically entirely based on a television model.
Yes, they don't release television shows over a number of weeks in the same way that other TV networks would do, but their standard model of creating the content, of producing the content, of putting it out, of writing it, all of these things are still based on traditional TV models, and therefore we think that the TV model of entertainment is something that people still fundamentally crave, it's still way that people choose to consume media and something that they get a great amount of value out of, so we don't think, based on that alone, we should we should abandon it.
Secondly, we think a diversity of networks allows for multiple options in a prepackaged way.
And the reason that we think this is important is because especially for people that professionals or other people that simply do not have a ton of time, we think that television is a great medium because you can find avenues that you enjoy, you can find networks to publish content that you think is enjoyable and you don't have to go searching for that content, it's all there, provided for you in a prepackaged model so that you can consume it and still have time to pursue other avenues of other avenues of engagement in the world, the workforce, what have you, whatever you want to do as a busy person.
We don't think the same is true for the internet.
While the internet obviously has a vastly larger amount of content available to people, it's not just there in that prepackaged form, it's much more difficult to seek out.
And recognize entertainment is a huge part of how people internalize value, entertainment is how people spend their free time, it's what they freely choose to do, and we think for that reason alone it it contains an immense amount of value.
So secondly, on news.
We think that well, the news the news media is largely driven by television.
So, the reason that we would say that this is the case is when you have two other comparatives, one of them is print media, we all know the print media is largely a dying format, people don't want to pay to receive print media, people are unwilling to pay for that type of content when they get similar content online, it's long form, it's not easily digestible, these things just aren't compatible with our modern lives, but we think that even if mainstream television news is skewed, we think it is far less skewed than the media that exists online, and we think it's also much more accountable to people than media that exists online.
So we think that television media is first an easy is has easy access for both short and long form news coverage, it is easier to access especially for people who are older, who aren't as familiar with modern technology, and we think that this is especially crucial to make sure that those people can remain engaged in the world around them in a fundamental way, and we think that television is fundamentally just more cross-generational, everyone understands how it behaves, where they go to get their content, and everyone is comfortable with the format.
Television is not anti-internet, the television is cross-generational, and it does provide quality news and entertainment.
For these reasons, we should not abandon television.