We should not ban naturopathy.
In this round we're going to explain why we think this this type of ban would be unjustified and why we don't think that it's required to that you need to ban naturopathy to remove the harms of it.
So first let's talk about what we think is that principally unjust ban.
First of all it's important to recognize the state is in essence a coercive body that has the power to wield unchecked and immense influence over people's lives.
That the state apparatus is virtually unchecked within its borders and that without some sort of guiding principles, without some sort of justification for the state's actions, there's no way to differentiate it from something like a cartel or a bully that just wields that power.
So in order for the state to be justified there must be something that gives its actions some sort of difference from those that are like a cartel.
And that difference is consent.
That people consent into the state through their actions.
They choose to consent into the state when they do things like voting, when they do things like being part of the political process, participating in their communities.
And we think that because that consent can't be explicit, we think that you need to look for the underpinnings as to why people would want to consent and why we don't see things like mass riots against the state and things like mass anarchy like like arising out of our states.
Because people would consent to the state in most instances.
And we think the reason people would opt into the state is because outside of the state there are no protections for their freedoms.
That you can have infinite amount of rights in theory in the state of nature but you don't have any sort of fundamental protections for them and that's why the state exists.
So we think under that idea there's only three reasons why a ban can occur: first there could be some sort of direct third party harm.
But this isn't the case with naturopathy.
We think there's a difference between banning the use of naturopathy for like children, who can't make the choice, who can't have make an educated choice of seeking this type of treatment and forcing it on children, but that's not what we think this debate is about broadly.
This is about a ban broadly.
And in those instances we think there's no direct third party harm because the people that take this medicine choose to do so under their own.
There could be some sort of asymmetry of information that causes direct harm.
But again, we think you can regulate in order to prevent this from being the case.
Yes, we don't think that people who practice naturopathy, who have naturopathic treatments for things, should be able to label their actions as science, as backed up by credible investigations and research and should be able to call themselves things like traditional medicine.
That obviously is something that we think you can fix though with regulation by making it criminal to do those types of things.
And if you don't have that type of a harm, if you have the regulations in place, then we think that it's easily the case that people don't make this decision with a massive asymmetry of information.
They make this decision knowing that it isn't backed by science but hoping that there could be some sort of cure that comes to existence from this existing.
Finally we wanna talk about the placebo effect.
And that's where we think there actually comes positive value for naturopathy.
It is the case that the placebo effect does have real effects.
People really do feel better when they think they're going to start feeling better.
When they think treatment they're taking is going to work.
And this has been backed through scientific study.
We think you can have some sort of from naturopathy and you should let people do what's best for them.
If they see a benefit or they think there's going to be a benefit, knowing the risks involved, then we think they should have the autonomy to make that choice.
Especially if traditional treatment has failed them in the past, which generally is the case when people seek out and use alternative types of medicine.
For these reasons we should not ban naturopathy.