We should fight for palestinian independence.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we believe that the world should rally around palestine both economically, diplomatically and possibly militarily to fight for palestinian independence.
The first is that we deeply believe in a right to self determination.
The state is only just with the consent of the governed.
Recognize that what the state is at its most basic form is a massive coercive body that gets to dictate what you can and cannot do and in its simplest terms it sounds obviously problematic, it sounds obviously bad that these that this entity exists that is largely outside of your control.
That gets to dictate for you what is right and wrong.
That is why in order to distinguish itself from something like a cartel, is you must have some form of consent from the governed.
We think that palestine has clearly shown time and again that it does not consent to the current occupation by israel.
It has declared its independence.
It has a self contained government.
It's applied for recognition as a state in the UN, the largest international body in the world.
It's also there's also been an immense amount of political violence over the occupation.
From every metric you could conceive of the people of palestine do not consent to the rule of israel.
They do not believe that their destiny is currently being determined by the populace, and that this violates and shows that the israeli state must be unjust.
We think that as a collective people palestinians have the right to collective self determination both principally and legally and thus their desire for independence should be honored.
Even if it were more utile to keep the occupation going for the whole of israel, any act taken against the consent of the governed is unjust and makes the whole state apparatus unjust along with it.
Palestine unsurprisingly is a major blemish on the record of israel in the international realm.
That is why there are many there are many states around the world that despise israel.
Because of its occupation of palestine.
Because it seemed as an oppressor, as an invader.
And we think that palestinian independence being honored is the right thing to do.
But secondly we think aside from any idea of self determination there's also a claim of restorative justice.
Look at the history of palestinians.
They were there originally before land was taken from them to form the israeli state by people that were ruling over them in a colonial sense.
They had restricted political rights by israel and continue to have restricted political rights.
The occupation has led to the deaths and tearing apart of communities for decades.
The blockade of gaza has caused even more harm on top of that.
By raising economic prices, by making it harder to get goods into gaza, by making it harder for people to live legitimate lives.
We think there's an obligation to undo these harms that israel holds, but also every country that has been supporting israel for the last fifty, sixty, seventy years of its existence, that has allowed israel to take these actions against the palestinian people without any sort of repercussions, as they were as all of these harms were accrued against innocent people with no desert claim for them.
No one in palestine deserves to has these things occur to them.
Yes, there are certainly some bad actors, but the vast majority of palestinians are peaceful people that simply want to live their lives.
We think you best fulfill that claim, that claim for restorative justice, that obligation that the state and all states have to restore the harm that was accrued unjustly, you do that best through independence.
For these reasons we should fight for palestinian independence.