We should not abolish electronic voting.
So we want to start with what we think the security systems are in the status quo for electronic voting and it what they if they aren't what we can regulate and allow them to be.
So in the status quo electronic voting boxes are a lot very similar to black boxes in the sense that they can't be tampered with except through specific type of access by government systems that then count those votes.
They aren't usually connected to the internet and the definitely shouldn't be connected to the internet so it's difficult to hack them from afar and we think that these systems are largely secure at least compared to the ballot box and we actually think that one benefit of that security is that it makes tampering, vote tampering a lot more difficult because if you aren't someone with some sort of clearance or access to the to the black box that is electronic voting then there's no way that you're going to get in there and change what those votes were or how those votes are being counted or tallied.
So we think that actually on a security level it's much more likely that electronic voting is going to be more secure than non-electronic voting.
What other benefits do we get from electronic voting?
First, we get increased efficiency.
In the in the past when you had to actually physically count up ballots it could take weeks if not months to actually know the outcome of an election in which time people could be feuding over the outcome, in which time people don't know who their future elected officials are, they can't plan appropriately for the future, and it just it's a system that yes maybe it doesn't have some sort of huge tangible impact if I don't know the results of that election the next day or same day but we think in a system where the security is fairly similar, that if you can have increased efficiency you ought do so because the the actual like voting machines can tally votes in near instance.
You can find out who won an election the same night as the election occurred and that puts people in a position where they can make better decisions and more choices in a more informed way as soon as possible.
Secondly, you get an ease of use.
What we mean by this is that these electronic voting machines are oftentimes very easy to use.
It's like you walk into a touch pad, you select the person that you want to vote for, you hit continue, then you cast your vote and it like reads out your ballot for you, it says " this is who you're voting for are you sure? "
You check and say " yes I'm sure " and you cast your vote.
There's no hanging chad with electronic voting.
There's no sort of unclear nature of whether or not your vote's actually going to be counted and there's also an additional possibility of standardization which is beneficial because if I move from one state to another or I'm someone that has a job that perpetually keeps me on the move, it means that no matter where I am in the country, no matter who I'm voting for or what type of election I'm voting in, the process is likely going to be exactly the same each time and that's a huge benefit.
It also is a benefit to people that are disabled in some way.
Whether they're elderly people that are not able to hear or see as well or whether it's someone that isn't entirely sure how the voting process goes before maybe you're new to voting.
It's a system that all people can get behind and have a thorough understanding of.
Generally, we think that electronic voting is likely to be more safer, more efficient, and easier to use than standard voting systems that came before it.
Given that this is the case, we see no reason to shift away from electronic voting and we certainly should not abolish electronic voting.