The energy industry should be nationalized.
So, we think that energy should be considered a public good and as such, it should be both guaranteed by the state and it should be produced, and run, and operated by the state.
We would seize energy production plants, we would seize any infrastructure that is privately owned, and we would, of course, compensate based on the current market value of that property, of that damage.
So we're not just going to steal that property, we're going to recuperate for that loss, but we are going to ensure that all energy industries are under public control.
Three reasons: the first is that energy in the status quo, energy production the industry the energy industry is largely comprised of local monopolies.
When you talk about power plants in local areas, when you talk about local energy providers, you're often talking about one business that service services a particular area or region.
If you're lucky, maybe there are two different providers, and the reason for this is that oftentimes the infrastructure to power homes, the infrastructure to provide this energy, is also controlled by those private entities.
When you have local monopolies, it creates a system in which prices become incredibly high because, like any other monopoly, energy being a need, energy not being a non-fungible resource, something that is going to be needed regardless of your ability to spend the money on it, prices naturally rise.
People business people recognize that they can raise prices and get away with it.
And because of that, we think it is necessary that we take public control of the energy industry, that we nationalize it to ensure that prices do not rise as the result of monopolies, because states have the benefit of not needing to have some sort of profit incentive.
The incentive of the state of running the energy industry is not to make as much money as possible, but rather is to provide energy to its citizens in an efficient and effective way.
And because of that, we think that prices are naturally going to go down once the energy industry is nationalized.
But there's some additional benefits of nationalization as well.
It can also lead to a shift in cleaner production methods.
So this may cause the cost of energy to not go down as much as it otherwise would, but if you start having power plants and and processes of creating that energy that are clean, that are based on things like wind farms or solar energy or different types, or nuclear energy, things that are cleaner than the current process of burning petroleum and oil-based products, then you can have a system that is better for the world globally and fights against global warming as a major threat that we face as a species.
And because of that, we think that you have a choice as a nationalized energy industry.
You can either create cleaner production methods or lower prices or, depending on the cost of the first, do both.
And this is a win-win for the vast majority of people.
The vast majority of citizens benefit from this because, as is clear, energy is a need and energy is something that the entire public must utilize and, therefore, should be considered a public good in the same way that water and clean air are considered a public good.
Finally, there's no sort of competitive edge to private ownership.
The ability to give energy to like power a community is not made competitively better, or or meaningfully more efficient, or better by having private ownership.
We think that public ownership can do just as well without having to give in to the demands of a profit incentive.
And for these reasons, the energy industry should be nationalized.