We should increase drug testing.
So our model for this is going to be fairly straightforward.
We think a broad increase in drug testing in fields where it already exists is a good idea.
We're gonna increase drug testing in sport, we're gonna increase drug testing by potential employers, and we're going to increase drug testing for those who are arrested.
One way that you may do this in this last field is if someone's been brought in for a drug-related offense, mandatory drug sentence drug testing, same thing can be done for different types of offenses, but that's probably the system that would come to exist.
First, we think that drugs are just bad.
The vast majority of illicit drugs on the market are illicit because they will have real repercussions and real harms on the person that's using them.
Steroids can cause long-term heart problems and can cause muscle deterioration in the future.
Doing hard drugs like heroin or methamphetamine can cause long-term addiction that can ruin a human being's life.
Popping prescription pills can have similar outcomes, while causing massive medical problems in the future.
All these types of things can come to arise because of drugs.
Given that this is the case, we think the government has an obligation to protect its people, and we think, furthermore, that us as a community, us in all sectors, have an obligation not to allow these people to continue doing what they're doing unchecked, for their own good.
So let's talk about the three areas that we're talking about.
First, in sport.
Well, simply put, using drugs in sporting is cheating.
If you're using steroids in major league baseball or in football or in basketball, this is something that is going to improve your ability and is against the explicit rules of the system in which you're playing, the rules that you consented to when you signed your very lucrative contract that's making you lots of money.
Given that this is the case, we think that, first, you're violating the the trust of the fans of the game, which is something that is unacceptable in a sport that is driven by fan interest, but furthermore, you're violating the contract that you have with the league, and we think that having further drug testing is entirely justified and just and allows you to catch more people that are cheating.
Secondly, in the workforce.
You have many potential employees whenever you're hiring for a job.
We think, as a business, you should prefer one who doesn't test positive for illegal drugs.
They're less they're much less likely to miss work because of substance abuse problems, they're less likely to have erratic or problematic behavior in the future in the workplace, and if you have two equally qualified candidates, we think that it's perfectly reasonable to prefer the one that didn't fail a drug test.
Finally, arrestees.
You've already violated the law in some way if you're being arrested.
It is the job of the police to prevent crime, one of which is using illegal drugs, and to catch those who are doing and selling drugs.
One way to have a good idea if someone is doing or selling drugs is to see if they have drugs in their system, and we don't think that you have any sort of right to not take a drug test.
We think that this is maybe something that liberals would say in the ether, but isn't justified by any sort of underlying principle.
And therefore, we think that in order for the in order for the criminal justice system to enforce and uphold laws, this is a perfectly reasonable step to take.
And we think that that's finally what's important in this round: that law needs to be enforced.
Law only maintains its weight if it's upheld.
If laws are not enforced, if laws are not prosecuted, if laws are not policed for, then there's no way for that law to hold weight.
In the status quo, drugs in our society are a massive epidemic.
Introducing more drug testing in all spheres of activity, in sport, in business, in our in our economy, and in our law enforcement system, we think are much more likely to rid these drugs from our communities.
For these reasons, we should increase drug testing.