We should not end water fluoridation.
In this round, we're going to respond to the arguments made by the government side explaining why we why they think that water fluoridation should be ended and explain why their argumentation is misinformed and misguided.
So the first argument that they make is that essentially forcing water fluoridation on people is bad because tap water is the source of water for the majority of people in countries like the united states that have fluoride in their water and that people should have an expectation of what they say is pure water.
We think that that is kind of silly just given the fact that people are totally fine with the government doing any number of things to the water in order to make sure that it's clean for them to use.
If the government pulled out of of cleaning the water altogether, then in countries like the united states where the tap water is currently clean, you would eventually have a system in which the water was unclean, and you wouldn't be able to drink from the tap water.
So no one has an expectation of pure water.
There are just some people, an angry minority of people, that think that fluoride is bad for them and are misinformed about the actual impacts of fluoride, but we don't think it's necessary for an angry minority to govern what the majority are going to put into their bodies.
If the angry minority is so outraged by this, they have the alternative of drinking bottled water.
Like bottled water may not be free, like tap water is, but it's not all that expensive.
And if it really is that big of a concern for them, they can probably shift their spending there from some other source that they're currently spending on.
The government says that we should defer to allowing people to make their own decisions, but we think that when people are actively misinformed, which is what's happening in this case, those people that think fluoride is bad, don't just think it's bad because they don't want the government to be putting anything in their water, any chemicals in their water, but it's because they think that this chemical that is being put into their water has negative effects, and it's because of false false information that's been perpetuated within the state that people have clung onto.
But we think when people are making misinformed choices, those choices become invalid, because they're not being based on any sort of factual reasoning.
We think in instances where there's an asymmetry of information, the government, all the time, makes decisions based on what's in the people's best interest.
And when you look at the approval of fluoride in the water amongst people that, you know, actually understand that fluoride isn't bad for you, there's no disapproval of it.
They're fine with it.
So we don't think that this is something that we need to defer to, in this instance, because while we generally agree that allowing people to make their own decisions is good, we don't think that people are really making a valid decision if they're misinformed like they are in this situation.
And it's not just that they're it's not that they're uninformed, it's that they're actively misinformed.
They have a belief that is false and because of that, we think it's fine for the government to intervene.
The second argument they make is that this is just not necessary in modern times because you have the option to just brush your teeth daily with fluoride toothpaste.
But recognize that the reality is many people don't just they just don't brush their teeth every day.
They don't take proper care of their teeth, whether it's because they're lazy, whether it's because they don't realize the effects of not brushing their teeth, there are just a number of people that don't brush on a regular basis, and this solves for that issue.
The final argument that they make is that this is a poor use of government funds, and they recognize that it's not massively expensive but that sources resources are fungible within the state budget.
And while it's certainly true that resources are fungible and maybe, theoretically, there are other places that you could put the spending to that's more impactful, we think that the reality is that it's much easier to keep spending on systems that are already in place than it is to try and pass new spending resolutions.
People are generally okay with spending that exists in the status quo and actively don't want to cut current spending, but people also don't want to increase spending or shift spending elsewhere.
This is why it's so hard to pass legislation in the united states.
And so we don't think that this fungible resource will actually go to some better end.
For these reasons, we should not end water fluoridation.