We should not further exploit sustainable energies.
So, the way that the government set ups this debate is that this is really in terms of exclusion to non-sustainable energies.
So the question in this debate is whether or not we should exploit sustainable energies to the point where we exclude other forms of energy, which we think is a major problem, and that's where the clash of this debate is going to be.
So the first point that the government brings up, we think, is actually the strongest argument for our side which they talk about climate change, that sustainable energies are generally greener, and because climate change is such a huge risk, if sustainable energies can slow climate change or deter it altogether, then this is a massive boon in that the benefits are are endless.
But we think that the real problem is that, in the status quo, we are basically at a tipping point which is that if we produce essentially any more carbon emissions than we are right now, then we're going to go past a tipping point where no further action is going to slow the changes or change the the impacts of climate change.
And many scientists believe we've already gone beyond that tipping point.
So given that this is the case, we think that no matter how we shift towards sustainable energies, it's not going to do nearly enough to change the impacts that are coming our way.
We think that this means that we need to be exploiting as much energy, as many resources as we have available to us right now, because we need to begin to prepare for the harms that are about to accrue from global warming.
This means massive development projects in interiors of countries away from the coast.
This means developing preparation for the incoming refugee crisis.
This means developing the way that we do agriculture and provide clean water.
And all these are going to require immense a massive use of energy, and we think that excluding the use of of of fossil fuels is going to mean that we don't have the sufficient amount of energy to truly prepare for the changes that are coming.
And given that these changes are essentially going to happen, there is nothing we can do at this point really to stop them, we think that we need to be putting everything that we can into protecting future generations.
And so, I'm fine with using sustainable energies, but to to use them at the exclusion of fossil fuels is a serious risk to our future survival.
The next argument they make is about energy independence and about how domestic access to energies means that economies are more secure and sustainable energies like wind and solar, these are energies that are generally able to be produced anywhere.
We think that we can still invest in sustainable energy.
Like we have no problem with sustainable energy as a concept, but we don't think that you need to do this at the exclusion of fossil fuels.
And if you're doing so in such a way that you're creating short term long term investments in these strategies, the long term is not what is important right now, because the long term looks a certain way no matter what.
The damages are coming no matter what.
What matters is how we prepare in the short term in order to brace for those damages.
The final argument that they make is about technological advancement.
And similar to the space race, you can create new offshoots of technology that may improve the world in dramatically other ways, but we think that research and development, to the exclusion of any sort of short term gain, is bad in that climate change is essentially a ticking time bomb.
And while long term planning and progress would've been great thirty, forty years ago, right now it's all about what we can do to prevent the most harms coming in the long run and preparing people for those harms.
And we think the way you do that is through continual use of fossil fuels.
Sure, you can use sustainable energies as well, but using all the resources we have available to us to prepare our infrastructure in our countries as much as possible.
For these reasons, we should not further exploit sustainable energies.