We should not fight nationalism.
We think that throughout the course of the government speech, they present an idea of nationalism that is a conflation of nationalism in its worst cases with nationalism in all cases.
We don't think that nationalism needs to be exclusionary to international cooperation.
It doesn't need to be exclusionary to multiculturalism.
What nationalism is is a recognition of your national pride.
It's seeing your country as something to be proud of, as something to support, and as something to rally around, and we don't think that that is either exclusionary, racist, exclusionary of multiculturalism, racist by definition, nor is it particularly harmful.
So first let's address the harms that the government team breaks up brings up.
The first is that this just short-circuits the ability to criticize the state, but I would argue that having a strong idea of national pride makes you be more conscious of your state actions.
It forces you to have high standards for your leadership and a high standard of how your country should behave, because people will still see the harms that your country is committing.
Nationalism will wane when your &amp;hes this sort of fervent nationalism, this sort of inability to self-criticize will wane when bad actions are done.
They bring up this example of george w bush using nationalism to justify the invasion in iraq, but they neglect to also mention that george w bush didn't just use nationalism, he also falsified evidence to try and show that iraq was responsible for the attack in nine eleven and that they had weapons of mass destruction, both of which falsified evidence.
And once it became clear that that evidence was falsified, nationalism didn't prevent people, even though there is still a significant amount of national pride and nationalism because this was shortly after the terrorist attack that brought together the nation, it still had the outcome of the war becoming very quickly unpopular.
So we don't think that nationalism prevents people from thinking critically about their state's actions.
They say this is always harmful but we don't think that's the case.
A strong sense of national pride can draw you to national service, it can draw you to volunteering for your community, it can draw you to running for public office, all these things that can be incredibly helpful in bringing people together.
They provide two ways of fighting nationalism that I think highlight the failure to recognize what nationalism is.
Firstly, they say you can promote multiculturalism.
But look at something like US nationalism, which the government side brings up throughout their speech.
There's an immense amount of nationalism in the united states, but this nationalism is not anti-multicultural.
Immigration shapes the idea of national pride, and the idea of what your nation is evolves over time with the makeup of your nation.
So we don't think that nationalism is definitionally exclusionary of immigration, but we think it does definitionally make people more likely to be drawn to doing things for their community.
The second thing they say you can do is you can support international cooperation and they say, " look at the european union ; they're doing a great job. "
But the european union also features many countries that have lots of nationalist history as well as a a a status quo of nationalist action.
Look at greece.
Look at italy.
Look at germany, or look at spain.
All of these countries have a large amount of national pride, national identity, an idea of us versus them, but they're still able to cooperate in instances where it matters.
The example of donald trump pulling out of the paris climate accord, again, a bad example.
Nationalism wasn't his justification, anti-science and political lobbying was his justification.
So to recap, we don't think that nationalism is necessarily exclusionary, but we think it does prevent it does bring people to serve their country and for these reasons, we should not fight nationalism.