Water fluoridation so in this debate we think that there are two main arguments that we want to make.
The first is about popularity in government legitimacy and the second is about how there's really little unique benefit that is provided by water fluoridation and why especially given the first point, this means that we should end it.
So on that first point, popularity in government legitimacy.
We would say that a government can only be legitimate if it rules with the popular consent of the people.
This doesn't just apply to leaders in charge that they are chosen through the popular consent of the people, but we would say it also applies to the actions that those leaders take.
It's both the policy and the leaders that must have popular legitimacy.
Fluoride in the water is well known to be a very unpopular government policy.
There are many people that fear its side effects.
There are many people that are afraid that can do long term damage to one's health and there are many people that are just skeptical of the idea of the government choosing what goes into their body and making decisions about what chemicals are going to enter their body and there are very few people, which is this is important recognize too, there are very few people that are adamantly in favor of it.
There are very few people that are very that think it's critical to their health, that think it's important, that think that it's something that you can only get through putting fluoride in the water for the masses.
All these things given that this is the case, fluoridation is not furthermore fluoridation just isn't a life or death situation.
Not having fluoride in your water is not going to cause any sort of real bodily harm to anyone that's being stripped of it and because of this, we think that in order for the government to be legitimate, it should defer to the popular will of the people.
So even if water fluoridation doesn't cause harm to people, there's no scientific evidence that it causes damage to people because the people do not want this to be the case, we think that we should bend to the popular will of the people.
Maybe it would be the case that if it showed to do demonstrably and excessively good things for individual health and there were tons of people that are adamantly in favor for of it this would be a different discussion but as it stands in the status quo, fluoridation also does not do that much benefit for people.
So water fluoridation the only effect that has been scientifically proven is that it improves teeth health.
It improves your gums and makes it a little better for your teeth and it makes it less likely that your teeth are going to decay and this is something that can be improved if people want to take those actions on their own and this is what is also important recognize.
Even though water fluoridation does some good, this is all good that you could get from regular dental checkups, through brushing your teeth and flossing, and taking very easy steps that individuals can make decisions about for themselves.
This trade-off is incredibly small especially given that.
That if I want to have all the benefits of water fluoridation even if the government cancels water fluoridation in putting fluoride in the water, I can still get them with very little cost to myself and have the same quality of what I would have gotten if the government had been doing it.
When the trade-off is this small it's especially important to defer to the popular will of the people.
So given that water fluoridation is both not very popular and not very impactful, not incredibly uniquely positively impactful on the lives of the people, we believe that we should end water fluoridation.