We should not limit the freedom of speech.
We think that in order for the state to be just in order to have a robust and active citizenry that participates fully in politics, to ensure that people can be the most informed most well educated, you need a robust freedom of speech.
You need a freedom of speech with very little if any limitations to protect fully people's abilities to speak their mind and to let information flow freely.
Let's talk about protection from tyranny.
Because we think that freedom of speech is one of those powerful tools against checking unjust regimes.
And recognize that the state has an immense amount of power.
It has an entire course of apparatus that can dictate what you can and cannot publicly say.
It has the ability to shut you down on the internet, in real life, all these things.
And recognize that it undermines the ability for the public to be informed when the state doesn't have the ability to freely disseminate information.
And there are many states that have very strict laws.
Not that have very strict laws to block unflattering information from being disseminated.
You can look at tyrannical regimes across the entirety of modern history and the thing they have in common, whether they're in china or north korea, is that they don't allow full and free access to information.
They don't allow people to speak their mind.
Regimes know that the ability to start a revolution can be wiped out if people aren't allowed to speak their revolutionary thoughts, if people aren't allowed to reveal things that the state is doing.
And the state can hide tremendous amounts of waste and fraud and heinous actions from their people if they are able to silence people that would otherwise put that information out there to the world.
If you if you can't inform the public generally, if people cannot know what their state is doing then there's no they can fully consent to that state.
Because they're consenting to something without full information.
They're consenting to something that they may find repugnant if they had full information about the state, if freedom to converse into spread ideas was robust.
If that's the case we think that principally this means that the state must be unjust of it does not have a full fledged and robust freedom of speech.
And look at, even developed countries like the united states and european nations.
They do things like block information about actions of political officials, ties with businesses, and these undermine those states' ability to be fully just.
To be something that is acceptable in our ethical standards of nations.
We think that it's bad and should be stopped when these states limit freedom of speech.
Either freedom of speech politically or freedom of speech about actions that the government is doing or just broadly.
We think the robust freedom of speech is necessary to check state power.
But outside of state power, recognize that speech leads to an informed and robust society.
Speech is the underpinning of the marketplace of ideas.
The way the people gain information, they make choices and form opinions, is through robust conversation with people outside of their immediate vicinity and that people need that marketplace of ideas for us to advance as a society.
That people need to put forward new ideas and that you could only embrace those new ideas and discuss those new ideas and uncover those ideas if you have the ability to ask critical questions and if you have the ability to posit new things.
And we think of freedom of speech being limited would undermine those things.
We think the freedom of speech spreads new ways of thinking and can open dialog between groups of people that lead to more empathy and understanding.
We think that freedom of speech is a powerful tool not only to check state tyranny but also to educate and empower the population.
And for these reasons we should not limit the freedom of speech.