We should not further exploit natural gas.
So, in this round, we're gonna make two broad arguments about why natural gas is not something that we should use further in the future.
The first is that it has a detrimental impact on global warming and that that is a major issue, and the second is that there are just better alternative sources of energy from a economic standpoint, from an efficiency standpoint.
All right, on global warming: we think that this is, by far, the most important point in this debate.
I want to lay out why global warming is the biggest threat to humanity that we've faced in our probably in the in the entirety of our species' lifetime.
So what are we doing to our environment?
What are we doing through the excessive use of CO two and methane, through putting greenhouse gases out into the atmosphere and warming our environment?
Well, first, we're causing the global ice caps to melt.
And this is hugely detrimental, because it means that all of that water that was frozen is now going to lead to rising sea levels.
And this may not seem bad at first, but then you recognize that almost all of the major economic and population hubs on our planet are on the coast.
The coast is where cities arose because it made them excellent trade ports, and we still have our cities on the coast today largely for this reason.
But this means that these cities are going to be underwater in a number of decades if we don't do something to seriously reverse our current plan and our current path.
And this means massive population to place displacement, massive economic loss, huge impacts on every country in the world.
We also think we're going to get more extreme weather events.
We've already seen this in the recent past.
Look at the hurricane season that the united states went through in just the last year.
Look at the fact that places like ireland and new england in the united states are getting these massive hurricanes and these and these horrible weather events.
We think these are only going to become more common and probably more destructive, and they bring their own economic and human loss in every time they come through.
There's also going to be a change in the seasons which is going to lead to, first, a lack of food, because when the seasons change farmers need to adapt, farmers can't grow in the same way as they have before.
It means the food supply becomes much lower when you can't have long growing seasons, when there's not time for the plants to to grow properly, these types of things.
It also means that we're going to have less clean water because more of that water is going to evaporate, more of our lakes are running dry, and that's going to become salt water that can't be used.
We're rapidly approaching a tipping point of no return and we need to care, not just for our own survival, but for the survival of children who we are forcing to bring into the world.
Natural gas, quite simply, pollutes.
It puts out more CO two in the atmosphere and, yes, it's called natural gas, but this doesn't mean that it doesn't lead to the further harm of the world.
We need to switch entirely to green technology, and further exploiting natural gas is only going to dig our grave that much deeper and make this problem that much irreversible.
But even if you don't care about any of that, if you think global warming is a hoax and none of that matters, why else should we not do this?
Because there are just better alternative sources.
Green technology is actually a great job provider.
Green technology is a massively growing industry and it requires less manual and more specialized labor, which means that it creates higher-paying jobs.
It creates better economic opportunities.
It doesn't just create jobs that pay people at the poverty line, or it doesn't just create jobs that are going to go away when the natural gas resources eventually dry up.
It's also a more efficient production of energy.
Green tech has the potential to become exponentially more efficient with things like safety safer nuclear waste disposal and the advancement of solar cell technology.
When these become a more efficient way of getting energy, your input costs get you further.
It means the amount of labor, the amount of energy you're putting in to create your energy, becomes less and less and less per energy produced, which we think just leads and has, over human history, more energy has led to more human advancement.
We think that that is preferable than using natural gas and possibly dooming our world that much faster.
For these reasons, we should we should not further exploit natural gas.