We should increase tax credits.
So, we're talking about tax credits broadly in this debate.
We think that there are a few tax credits that we are specifically thinking about that we'll discuss later, but the purpose of the debate, we think, is to talk about the benefits writ large of having a heavy tax credit taxation system versus one in which there are fewer tax credits.
So let's talk about why tax credits are so beneficial.
What tax credits allow for is that it allows the government to incentivize good private behavior, and this is something that the government has been doing for decades.
For example, the government wants to incentivize people to purchase homes.
The reason for this is that people become more embedded in their community.
They have more of an investment there.
It's also a good investment for them long term because it's a good stored value as opposed to renting.
So overall, it's a good thing for private citizens to do to purchase homes.
But it is probably not just to say all private citizens must purchase a home, because context matters, because people have reasons to not want to purchase a home, to not want to put down roots.
Maybe they don't have the money for it, maybe they don't want to be tied down to a particular area.
So tax credits are a good way for the government to incentivize certain behavior without actually codifying that behavior in law.
Another prominent example of a tax credit is one for having children, because children are obviously good for the growth of the community, children are good for economic growth, all these types of things, and because, well, tax credits make it a lot easier to have a child.
So, tax credits clearly incentivize good behavior, and we think that this is something that the government should try and do more of.
Additionally, tax credits also allow for higher overall rates of taxation and increase the potential tax pool that the government can draw from.
The reason for this is that if you can, say, give tax credits for a large amount of particularly good activities, those are things that people are able to write off on their taxes at the end of the year, which means knowing that these people have avenues to lower their tax rate, you can raise the higher marginal tax rate because most people will not be paying that rate at the end of the year.
But it means that people that are doing things that aren't giving any sort of productive capacity, aren't doing any of these things that would be beneficial to the state, well, in that case, you can then tax them at higher rates, because they're doing less in their other activities to contribute to the benefit of the community.
So, this means that when you have tax credits, it both allows for a higher, an increase in the potential tax money, and it leads to people doing better things in their private lives.
So what are some examples of tax credits that we think should be widely widely added to tax credit systems?
Well, one, you could have a tax credit for adopting solar power on your home, for getting off the grid.
If you are able to transition your home, your property, or whatever it may be to a one hundred percent green fuel or green energy, that's something that is incredibly beneficial to society.
It's something that will help, if it was to be adopted en masse, would be incredibly beneficial to the state, and this is something that you can do with tax credits.
You can also give tax credits for other green housing measures, like being a low-waste home.
Most homes give off an immense amount of waste, whether it comes in the form of food waste or whether it comes in the use of a high amount of plastics.
You can give tax credits to people to cut down on their use of these things, to be more frugal in their activity, and these are activities that we're going to need in order to stave off the worst harms of environmental damage and global warming.
And it's much easier it's a much more free option, it's a state that is more liberal and more just that incentivizes these things through tax credits than it is through outright proclamations.
For these reasons, we should increase tax credits.