We should not end the use of economic sanctions.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments for why economic sanctions are a good tool to have on the international stage.
The first is that sanctions are an effective tool for creating change, and the second is that sanctions are comparably comparably good to other forms of international action such as invasion, such as diplomacy, because it does not violate state sovereignty and it creates changes.
So, first, why is it an effective tool for creating change?
We think that oftentimes sanctions are used in instances where a government is doing something that violates international norms, something that is detrimental to the people within its borders and detrimental to the international norms that maintain peace and security in the world.
So sanctions are not used in just sort of everyday situations.
They're not used because you're just angry at another country for vain reasons.
They're used in real in instances where really problematic things are going on.
Look at look at iran and building nuclear weapons.
Look at north korea and how it treats its citizens.
We think that what sanctions are good for is that they make the people on the ground feel it.
You can put the screws to a country in diplomatic negotiations, you can threaten force that's never going to come, or you could use sanctions in such a way that it makes everyone feel the hardship that the country's government is doing.
When that happens, you create anger certainly and potentially towards the regime, the state that is imposing the sanctions, but when you have a good sanction scheme, one in which all states or most states are involved in the sanctions, it creates anger towards the regime that's in charge, because the people look at that regime and say, " is what you're doing really worth the sanctions that are being imposed on us? "
And this stuff has worked in the past.
Look at how it's brought iran to the table in nuclear negotiations.
Look at how divestment, which is very similar, in south africa, brought an end to the apartheid regime.
These are things that have been shown to work in the past.
These are things that have been proven and demonstrably proven to cause change moving forward.
With that in mind, we think that this is also a good balance between the need to balance sovereignty and the need to create change.
So, there's nothing about economic sanctions that violate state sovereignty, and state sovereignty is incredibly important.
We think there's a right to self-governance that must be respected, a right to freedom of association.
Sovereignty leads to stable governing, and it creates friendly international norms where people aren't constantly worried about the neighbors on their border.
So you need tools on the international level to foster change but sometimes governments fail, but not to the extent that their sovereignty needs to be violated, not to the extent that an entirely new regime needs to come in.
This creates change without taking any steps that violate sovereignty.
If I as a state choose to say, " I'm not going to send aid to you.
I'm not going to allow my goods to come to you.
I'm not going to allow your goods to come into my state, " there's nothing about the state's sovereignty that's being violated.
It's another state choosing to take steps that are entirely within its own borders, that are entirely regulatory of its own of its own people and its own companies.
So there's no violation of of sovereignty happening in these instances, but it also is an effective tool for creative change.
Compare that to something like a full-scale invasion.
There's going to be way more death, there's going to be way more destruction, there's going to be a massive violation of sovereignty to get a similar change invoked, but at a much higher cost.
For these reasons, we should not end the use of economic sanctions.