Hunting should be banned.
In this round we're only going to make one argument but we think it's the most important argument in this discussion, and that is that animal rights should exist, that the lives of animals should be valued, and that hunting massively undermines those rights.
So let's talk about the ban a little bit.
We think that the ban would probably be something like a fine for people that are found to be guilty of hunting right now people are policed through having to have licenses to hunt do other types of things we think the same policing measures can be kept in place but that it would simply be the case that no one could ever hunt, that if you were found hunting you'd be fined.
Alright moving on to the actual meat of this debate.
We think that animals simply deserve to have rights and let's explain why / we think that rights are inherently a social construct and what we mean by this is that rights aren't something that are devined from the natural order of things, rights aren't something that come from some high over overbearing creator that rights as they actualize in law and in our society are constructed by that society that they're built by people based on certain preferences.
We think there are many different ways that people in this in societies across the world choose to construct rights.
Some are deontological meaning that they're given from some sort of rightful nature of the rights, others utilitarian that are that being that they provide the most good the most people but generally we think that all these right systems ultimately boil down to one fundamental concept, that rights are systems that are put in place to maximise pleasure and to minimize pain.
That what we deem to be a right ultimately comes into place because we think that it is essential in order for people to have their pain minimized and have their pleasure maximized.
If you look at rights like the right to life the right to bodily autonomy the right to free expression the right mobility all of these things are incredibly intrinsic to not being given pain and to be able to express yourself in such a way to have pleasure.
We think that in order to have weight in order to have strength rights need to be universalized, otherwise they become arbitrary they become things that we pass on to certain groups when we think that is convenient for that social construct and we don't give to other groups when it's inconvenient for the social construct but this allows rights to be undermined in a variety of ways and allows us to avoid giving rights to people that we think probably deserve them.
We think if your rights are going to be based on pain minimization and pleasure maximization that anything or anyone that can that can have those expressions that can feel pain and feel pleasure should be counted and given some weight.
Animals certainly meet this conclusion, they can feel pain like they can feel pain like that of losing a a close member in one's heard, they can feel pain in being killed through hunting, they can feel pleasure in being together with one's family killing and maiming them clearly violates these rights and when we say that animals deserve rights we don't say that they deserve all the same rights as people but hunting to something that undermines the most fundamental right, the right to life.
This is something that we think is intrinsic to animals ability to feel to feel pleasure and to minimize pain whereas other rights such as the right to vote that we give in a democracy simply isn't something that an animal can experience can actualize through.
Furthermore we think that there's a higher order that is being risked here, that the high order pleasure of life shouldn't be outweighed by the lower order and therefore short term pleasure of hunting.
That in like overall the net pleasure that can be gained from being alive for the animal is going to vastly and dramaticaly we outweigh the overall pleasure that can be gained from hunting and killing that animal.
We think that the ban is good because it protects these rights that the state as the as the legitimate user of a corercive of apparatus should be doing things like protecting rights and upholding those right systems.
Therefore we think that it is necessarily the case that animals given rights for rights constructs to be universalized for rights constructs to be strong and ultimately for people to have their rights protected and for this reason hunting should be banned.