We should not introduce year-round schooling.
Many people say that when you look at countries that have year-round schooling, they have higher test scores, they perform better, their students have a better have better success in school.
But we think that these people overestimate the impact of year-round schooling and underestimate the impact of things like cultural differences.
They they underestimate the impact of parents that push their children harder, that has a the impact of a society that has better educational facilities in general.
We think that year-round schooling is not this panacea that people claim and that getting rid of things like summer vacation, specifically, are going to have immense harms on students.
We think there are five harms generally.
First, summer vacation gives you an immense amount of time to work and gain extracurricular experience and and do other activities.
This is beneficial for two reasons: first, there are simply many kids growing up in today's day that need to work in order to help support their family.
Taking away the summertime in which students can go work at a camp, they can get a summer job, they can make easily a few thousand dollars to help support themselves and to help support them families, we think that getting rid of this opportunity is problematic.
And even those that aren't working to do things like feed themselves, they're still doing things that they can put on a resume to better themselves, to gain experience that they otherwise wouldn't have gotten within school, because work and extracurriculars provide valuable experience and valuable real world knowledge that school simply cannot offer.
Summer vacation is also an excellent time for families to travel, and we think that this is an important part of the experience of growing up.
Being able to go on a vacation with your family, whether it's just down to the beach or you're going to a different country, these are times for families to bond.
It's times where everyone in the family to kind of kick back and relax and to enjoy their experience with one another.
And again, things like traveling provide immense experience to children and a better outlook on the world.
There's also a huge economy that's centered around summer vacation.
Think about all of the jobs, all of the tourism, all of the camps, all these things that are predicated on the idea that for two to three months out of the year, kids are not going to be in school, that families are gonna need to do something with their kids, put them somewhere, and that people are going to need something to do.
We think that taking this away and keeping kids in school during this time is going to be a massive economic harm, especially to the seasonal industries that really rely on students having summer vacation.
We also think that, and again, this is kind of less concrete than what we've been saying, we think that there's a true beauty in being in having a break from responsibility.
As a child, this is your only time in your entire life when you're going to be able to just say, " I'm going to do nothing for two months.
I'm going to sit back and enjoy the process of just being a kid. "
And this is something that we think that kids maybe take for granted.
But, as an adult, think about how beneficial your life would be if you could just take two months worry-free to do absolutely nothing and simply return to your job.
It's time to better yourself.
It's time to relax.
It's time to remove the stress and the from the work and the and all of the pressures that people around you are putting on you.
We think that this is an immense boon to children and it makes them more likely to go into the school year willing to engage, more actively engaging, and more prepared from a mental standpoint to actually put in the hard work that school should require.
Finally, we think that summer vacation makes teaching more attractive as a profession, which means that people are more likely to go into that job.
And this is important because teaching is a comparatively low-paying job.
It's a comparatively underappreciated job, and any benefit that you can give to teachers to give them that break that children have, we think, is a positive and leads more people to enter the profession.
For these reasons, we should not introduce year-round schooling.