We should ban gerrymandering.
So, we think that the only real way you can ban gerrymandering is to have a two-tiered system because if you cede all control to computers, it means that you have a system that doesn't take into account communities.
It's difficult for computers to understand the different sort of facets of building an electoral system that are important: trying to keep communities together, trying to keep representation of races and and classes somewhat equal within populations.
So here's were going to do: first, we're going to build districts via computer-generated maps.
So these maps are going to be entirely built based on computers.
Then they will go through an approval process by a bipartisan board.
When we say bipartisan, we mean bipartisan.
There will be an equal number of members on this bipartisan board to ensure that you that once you have a computer-generated model, that you're that you then have a review process that isn't based on political will.
It's not based on political desire of one party or another.
If the board refuses or if it thinks the map is wrong, it needs to give a detailed reason as to why.
That information will go back to building future computer-generated maps, and we think that this should be done on a five to ten year rolling basis.
So, a few reasons for for this: first, you get more accurate representation.
And let's be clear, when we're talking about our democracy, when we're talking about the legitimacy of our democracy, what's important is not the fact that people go out and vote.
It's not the fact that we have a president and a congress that are democratically elected.
What's important is that you get an accurate representation of what people actually want when it comes to legislation.
When you have a system of gerrymandering, you lead to a you lead to a system in which many people are excluded from having an actual voice in that system, because you have packing of districts so that you have overwhelmingly conservative or liberal districts, and you have cracking of areas to ensure that areas that would be majority one party one party or the other are split into two.
You have a system in which we are in which we are distinctly and explicitly trying to select the constituents from the politicians' perspective.
And we think it's incredibly undemocratic for politicians to pick their own constituents, for a politician to say: these are the people I want to represent, moving forward.
These are the people I do not want to represent, moving forward.
I want my election to be this easy.
This is overtly undemocratic, and it's and it leads to a system in which you don't have accurate representation of what people actually want.
And the status quo leads to a clear lack of competitive districts, which leads to a few harms.
First, it entrenches bad politicians.
For example, in new jersey, robert menendez is being is has been basically found guilty of ethics scandals but is entrenched because he is an incumbent politician, because the because the area is is so deeply blue, there's not a lot of competition, and this happens at the district level as well, and we think that that is incredibly problematic.
It also allows politicians to posture rather than to legislate in their constituents' best interest, because they know they're going to get reelected.
They know that as long as they say the right words, they can profit off of their they can profit off of their off of their existence.
They can profit off their job and probably still get elected because eighty five percent of people in their district or sixty five percent, probably more accurately, are from their party.
It also creates more extreme candidates.
When you have districts that are seventy percent one party or the other, it means that you're more likely to have a large portion of those people be incredibly extreme on either end of the political spectrum, and it means that instead of having a system in which you have one moderate candidate versus another, you have an extreme candidate who's going to win and go into office, and gerrymandering is part of what we saw lead to the rise of the tea party movement in the late two thousands.
For all these reasons, we should ban gerrymandering.