We should not adopt slow food.
In this round, we're going to make three main arguments about why we think slow food is not something that is practical and is not something that should be adopted on a wider level.
So, many people in the status quo decry the state of nutrition, the state of farming, the state of the food industry in most of the developed world.
And many people argue that the developed world is eating inorganic, unnatural products, we're eating things that are farmed by, essentially, factories, and that this is contributing to a lack of health and a lack of well-being for people in the developed world.
But it's important to recognize that if we were to really adopt slow food principles, things like making sure that most of our ingredients are locally sourced, things like only sticking to the dietary patterns that the local environment allows us to live off of, this is not a solution that is actually scalable for the population levels that we're looking at right now.
Think about trying to adopt slow food, en masse, in a place like new york city, with a population of eight million people living over the plate over the same amount of area as a as a city, such a small area.
We think that it's impossible to actually live a locally sourced food have locally sourced food in any meaningful way in these areas.
There's just so much diversity of people, a diversity of needs, a diversity of cultures that are necessary in order that exist in these areas.
We think it's dramatically unlikely that even the local surrounding area, even if you expand to just the state of new york to feed the city that is new york city, we think it's unlikely that you would have the resources available to only have locally sourced options, to have something like slow food to adopt that en masse.
And because of that, we think that this just isn't a scalable solution as far as something that can be adopted for many areas.
Additionally, we think that this isn't necessarily a healthier type of food.
Yes, many people argue that organic food is better for you, but when people decry things like GMOs, there's no massive amount of science behind these things.
Organic does not equate to healthy, and we think that the fact that something is locally sourced does not make it preferable to foods that you can get in different restaurants, restaurants that don't serve locally sourced food, restaurants that aren't slow food restaurants.
And and finally, slow food is often associated with much higher costs.
When you have locally grown food, when you have food that is not made in a factory environment, which means it uses a a large amount of land, this is food that that necessarily has higher input costs and, therefore, is more costly to the consumer.
This means that slow food as a practice is largely exclusionary to people that are in the upper and middle upper classes in society and therefore, not only is it not scalable in terms of actual number of people that can eat it, but it's not scalable as far as the types of people that can adopt it.
It's an exclusionary food practice whereas our status quo food practices, for the most part, are available to people at various economic levels, at least to some degree.
For these reasons, we should not adopt slow food.