We should protect internet privacy.
So, right off the top, we want to say that when we're talking about internet privacy, we're not just talking about government surveillance over the internet, we're also talking about the ability for businesses to capture your data and package that data, sell that data, their ability to take your information with or without your knowledge.
We think that all of this is is encompassed by internet privacy and all of it should be protected.
So, first and foremost, we believe that not only is a right to privacy legally recognized in many areas, but it's a right that should exist.
So, many courts globally recognize the right to privacy, whether it's the US supreme court, whether it's the european union's courts that have recognized a right to be forgotten, these are different courts that legally recognize that this right should exist.
And that's important in this debate, because if we're seeing that countries have said clearly that there is a right to privacy that should be respected, it means that that is a promise coming from the state that action will be taken to ensure that right.
It's something that the state has proclaimed for its citizens and therefore should be addressed.
And furthermore, we think that internet use is necessary.
People often give up their rights with little understanding of what they're doing, and they're often given limited choice, given social pressures.
Like when people say, " oh, you just don't need to get a facebook account, don't need to get a twitter account, you don't need to be on social media, you don't need to have email with google, " all these types of things, these are people that don't recognize that this type of technology is to modern day what a phone was to people in the nineteen eighties.
If you were if you were living in the nineteen eighties and you did not have a phone number to be so and people couldn't call you, that was a way to be ousted not just from being able to interact with people socially, but businesses wouldn't take you seriously.
There'd be no way to contact you.
There'd be no way to get in touch with you.
People become suspicious in this day and age if you're not online.
It seems like you're hiding something.
And online branding is often one way in which people show off their resume and get jobs, or it's a way that people build businesses for themselves.
And there are certain platforms, like facebook, that that have become so widely used that it's almost necessary, in order to have a social life, to be on these areas.
And facebook intentionally, facebook and other providers, like google and twitter, intentionally make their service their service agreements and terms of service difficult to understand and incredibly vague, so it allows them to capture data on you, even when you don't know they're doing it.
And this is why facebook has faced so much backlash recently, because information was being captured without people even knowing.
We think that the right to privacy is good.
We think that your data has value to it and you should be able to either monetize that data or keep it withheld, if you choose not to be turned into a product that other places can sell you.
We think that you also get a more secure internet and a more secure world overall if fewer places store your personal data.
It's not just that facebook has access to my personal data, but it's that all these apps that use facebook do as well.
It's that there are now dozens and dozens of places across the internet that have my personal information, and I have little way to have recompense against that.
And finally, we think that, this goes without saying, but government should certainly not have the ability to get personal data without a warrant.
This is a clear violation of your right of your rights in a legal system.
It's a clear violation of the right to due process and the right to the right to some sort of privacy in that sense and we think that, clearly, states should have to get warrants in order to get this information.
Current current practices clearly are unjust, but we think that that falls along the same lines of what we've said earlier and for all of these reasons, we should protect internet privacy.