Boarding schools should not be abolished.
So generally, we want to make one overriding point, before we talk about the two main substantive points for that we have.
But, we think that, when you talk about abolishing things, or banning things, or moving things from society, we think that these are often incredibly drastic decisions.
Recognize that, while boarding schools may have negative connotations associated with them, because of the way that they're portrayed in popular media, they're generally no more harmful to a child than private schools, and they don' they oftentimes don't keep children as secluded as they are perceived to be in popular media, and even if the worst of what they appear to be is how they are, there still benefits to boarding schools, that can be saved by regulation.
So, we think that generally, if their arguments against boarding schools, these are arguments that can be implemented, if they are true, if they are pointing out something that needs to be solved, we don't think that the form of solvency must be that the schools are abolished, but rather that they are changed and reformed to reflect what is needed.
So, two substantive arguments aside from that: first is about education choice, and second is about parental choice, there's some overlap, but I think they're meaningfully distinct.
The first is about education choice.
Recognize, that education is crucial to the formation of an individual, to the formation of one's livelihood, to giving them a solid foundation of education, that allows them to lift themselves up, and gives them the opportunity to expand their horizons, into a variety of fields.
Education is the groundwork on which individuals are able to build and create a livelihood for themselves, and the fact that it occurs at such a young age, doesn't make it any less crucial to the development of that person's life moving forward.
Everyone recognizes the importance of education.
Recognize, that generally boarding schools are usually fairly high quality schools, because like other private schools, they're funded by fairly affluent individuals, there are high expectations of the parents, that send their children to boarding schools, and for these reasons, these schools tend to produce students that perform at a fairly high rate.
We think that this is obviously a benefit because it ensures that those students, those children, are more likely to be set up for success in the future, and what is wrong with that?
What is wrong with allowing people to have those things?
We think, that, as a principle, more choice in education is good, because it can cater to the particular needs of children.
There are different learning needs that children have, between each other, and we think that public schools simply cannot cater to every different type of learning need that a child has, but boarding schools can.
We think that boarding schools are, you boarding schools and private schools and having a whole array of options can allow children to be catered to.
We also think that parental choice is crucial.
Recognize, that parents are used as the proxy for determining what their children need for good reason.
They know about their child's developmental history, they know about their child's behavioral history, they know about what their child's future may entail, and they know about what the needs of their child are in the status quo.
We think that children sometimes need the structure, that boarding schools can offer.
The seclusion from general society, where there are a number of distractions away from your studies, are are a major impediment to many people's ability to learn, and while it may not be fun for children to get shipped off for five days a week, or even for a couple of months at a time, to go and do their studies, it's important for parents to have the opportunity to choose to do these things, because they know what's best for their children, they know what is ultimately going to put them onto a path for success in the future, and we think that stripping them of these choices by by abolishing boarding schools is not the preferable way to go, especially when there are alternatives, like different types of reformation to to boarding schools, that can solve up for the problems that others would point out.
For these reasons, we would say that boarding schools should not be abolished.