We should not prohibit unisex bathrooms.
In this round we're going to make two broad arguments.
The first is about individual comfort and why it's reasonable that people would want to use a unisex bathroom and should have the right to do that.
And the second is about why trans and gender fluid empowerment is not served especially well by prohibiting unisex bathrooms altogether and we're gonna talk about why that group matters when talking about this topic.
Okay so, first on individual comfort.
The idea of a bathroom is that that is a private space.
That people should feel comfortable when using that private space because you're doing something that, even if not personal and and mentally revealing about who you are in some way, it is something that people feel sensitive about about going to the bathroom.
It's something that from a very young age you're taught is supposed to be private, supposed to be something that you don't talk about, it's supposed to be something that you do in the comfort of your own home or in a private area.
Unisex unisex bathrooms give an option to get people a separated gender bathroom.
People often feel uncomfortable for social reasons.
People feel uncomfortable pooping in front of the opposite sex even though there's absolutely nothing wrong with it, there's nothing that is inherently problematic about it,but people do feel uncomfortable because they've lived there whole lives and in in an in an environment where they are only going into unisex bathrooms where they don't see the opposite gender there.
And furthermore there's also people that just have a fear of being in a vulnerable position, especially women when they're around men, and given the rates of abuse that occur and the rates of assault that occur from men being against women we do think that it's fair that women shouldn't be forced to be in this vulnerable position with in the same room as men if they choose not to be.
If they choose to go and use this unisex option.
We shouldn't politicize the ability for someone to feel comfortable when they go to the restroom.
This is a basic part of our humanity, a basic part of who we are and we don't think that we should politicize this simple thing.
We can keep the unisex option and still serve trans empowerment by having both.
So often times the purpose of gender neutral bathrooms, and this is likely what the alternative would be to a unisex bathroom, is one that is for both sexes, the purpose of this is largely so that gender fluid and transgender people can themselves feel comfortable.
They don't have to out themselves in order to go to the bathroom of the gender that they identify as.
This same end can be achieved by introducing gender neutral bathrooms but not making them the exclusive option.
People that are trans and people that are gender fluid can have the opportunity to go into these gender neutral bathrooms and at the same time you can give someone who isn't living that experience or who is but wants to use a unisex bathroom the opportunity to do so because that is what makes them feel most comfortable.
If the whole purpose of this movement towards gender neutral bathrooms is to allow this group of people to feel comfortable we shouldn't do this at the expense of all other people feeling less comfortable or a large group of people who are not in this community feeling less comfortable.
Doing this by abolishing and prohibiting unisex bathrooms altogether, not just providing a gender neutral option, we think you're more likely to lead to increased conservative resentment against these groups of people which we think is bad in the long run for trans and gender fluid acceptance and ensuring that these people can integrate into our communities without feeling attacked, without feeling like they're constantly under fire.
We don't see any unique benefit that is derived from making gender neutral bathrooms the only option as opposed to one of multiple options and given that there's no unique benefit the political lash back that would likely occur and the fact that it would just make lots of other people uncomfortable.
We should not prohibit unisex bathrooms.