We should not protect edward snowden.
The degree to which the information edward snowden revealed harmed the united states.
The degree to which edward snowden is a hero, the degree to which the information that was leaked, set a bad precedent moving forward, is all debatable but there's one thing that isn't debatable that edward snowden is a criminal, that he violated US law directly and knowingly, and there's a reason that he fled the country because he knows that what he did was illegal and that the US must prosecute.
Three reasons why this is the case.
First, is to have an equal application of justice.
We think that a just state must apply laws equally to all citizens.
This isn't just the case because of principled reasons like the fact that you want to have a state that doesn't favor certain classes of citizens over others, but also because it is literally built into the US constitution that you have an equal application of the law.
Just because there's a groundswell of popular support from one side of the political spectrum does not override the legal framework that the united states has built up over the last three centuries.
We think snowden clearly violated the law and release classified information and the state should not actively protect criminals of any sort.
In order for there to be faith in our justice system, in order for there to be faith in the laws that we have, and in order to deter people from violating those laws in the future, the state must uphold the legal framework that it has and that means that we must not protect edward snowden.
Secondly, we think it sets a bad precedent for the future if all whistle blowers get this type of protection.
This isn't just a precedent for united states but also for the states that are protecting edward snowden in the status quo.
If all whistle blowers get this type of protection, if they see they can blow the whistle and flee to another country, we think it's much more likely that more state secrets will be exposed.
Some think that this is a good thing.
Recognize that exposing US intelligence techniques, covert operations, and covert operatives, puts real lives at risk.
Look at china and how multiple chinese multiple US operatives in china were either killed or arrested following the leak of information from edward snowden.
These are real people that lost their lives because of the actions this person took unilaterally.
Edward snowden made a judgment call and we don't think that we should set the precedent that all people who are in the security apparatus can simply make a judgment call about what information should and should not be out there.
Edward snowden was one man and one person will act again in the future, but we don't think we should set the precedent that makes people more likely to do this.
In fact we think we need to deter people.
Finally, edward snowden's put actions put US interests at risk.
So as the state, it's in our interest to have information on allies and enemies.
To the protection of citizens is our foremost state concern and having this information makes it less likely that other states will take actions without our knowledge that could harm our citizens.
Snowden's actions creates increased tension with our allies even though all allies are conducting spying operations on each other in this day and age where it's easier than ever to be to to spy on each other either over the web or through our technological apparatus.
State the state should protect these interests.
If the state appears weak when it comes to protecting its own security interests, it makes it easier for the state to be a pushover in the international realm.
It makes it easier for other states to go in and violate the state sovereignty and to conduct spying operations in the US and it makes it more likely that others will defect to enemies of the state with valuable information.
All this is problematic for upholding US security moving forward and all this is problematic for upholding the legal framework of the united states moving forward.
For these reasons, we should not protect edward snowden.