We should raise the corporate tax.
So, in the status quo, we're not gonna like argue about numbers exactly, but we would substantially raise the corporate tax rates that currently exist across developed countries.
So we don't want to argue, like I said, about that number, but we think that this would be a substantial raise, one that would probably be something like fifty percent to a hundred percent higher than the current rates.
All right.
So, two main arguments: the first is that we think we need to correct for the wealth disparity that currently exists.
In the status quo, a disproportionate amount of wealth has been accumulated by the richest of the rich, while poor and average families have suffered.
While productivity has increased tremendously over the last number of decades, median earnings have remained stagnant since approximately the nineteen eighties.
This in turn is coupled with a cost of living that is going up, especially in urban centers where jobs are most prevalent.
We think that the average worker's simply entitled to a higher take-home of the profits that come into the corporation, but job scarcity and the corporatizing of industry, the fact that one corporation can own any number of different firms and different businesses, has made it easier to drive down wages.
The c-level executive a company does not put a hundred times more labor into the day-to-day operations of a business than the average employee does, and the c-level executive is further dependent on those below to create value and actually produce the product that they're going to make money off of.
We think that corporate taxes allow for wealth to be redistributed, and this hurts the pockets of the wealthiest far more than it hurts the average worker, because their salary isn't dependent on corporate profits, their take-home bonus isn't dependent on corporate profits, and they are the lifeblood of the corporation, which means it's much easier to cut salaries of, say, a c-level executive who's already making millions upon millions of dollars than it is to cut the salary of every employee across the company in order to pay these higher taxes.
We think that you can use that money to create kickbacks for the american worker that can do a tremendous amount of good.
First, you can improve infrastructure and provide opportunities at public employment, which means that you can get better jobs and create a more competitive job market.
But also with an with additional infrastructure, we think you make innovation and more entrepreneurial entrepreneurship more easily accessible to the average person.
You can also increase education to help future generations to ensure that the economic divide does not remain at the level that it is today.
And finally, you can just provide lower income tax rates or provide more tax rebates for the average american worker.
You don't need to increase the total net sum of taxation and taxable money that's coming in, which means you can put money directly into the pockets of people that are currently being shortchanged in their wages.
Secondly, we think it's important for these companies to internalize the harms of their production, and the corporate tax rate does this.
In the status quo, corporations rarely have to internalize the full harm of their production.
There are two areas where this is most dramatic: environmental damage and pollution is the first.
These companies can dump, produce emissions, do all types of things that harm the environment but because those things those prices aren't internalized by them, they're internalized by the the world and the country writ large, they can pass products on to consumers without having any hit to their bottom line, which corporate which raising corporate taxes would do a number would would help reduce the amount that that corporations are currently able to skid by.
Second secondarily, corporations in the status quo take short-term risks to please shareholders.
They do things like speculate on current economic productivity, and this ultimately leads to economic shocks that affect us all.
The reason for the housing crash and the two thousand eight recession was because of corporate speculation and poor corporate practice, yet the dramatic amount of harm that came from that was almost all internalized by the average person, not by the wealthiest off.
We think it's we think that raising corporate taxes force companies to internalize those costs ahead of time before that recession happens and secondly, prepares funds for the state for the recession and the recovery spending that is ultimately necessary because of corporate action.
For these reasons, we should raise the corporate tax rate.