We should tax infant formulas.
So before we get into the meat of this debate we want to just give an overview to make something clear.
If you have some sort of medical condition in which you cannot breastfeed your child, if there is something about you as a as a human being that means that you cannot do this certain things and the only way that your child can be fed is through infant formula, we're fine having some sort of exception that allows these women to be free from this rule so they can healthily feed their child with formula.
But in all other instances, we think it is perfectly reasonable to tax infant formula.
A few reasons as to why: the first is that studies have shown that infant formula is less healthy than breast milk.
This presents a clear risk to children.
Whether it's the fact that you're not getting the same vitamins that you're supposed to be getting from breast milk, whether it's the fact that processed parts of the formula can have certain can have certain harm to children, whether it's just studies that show that children that feed from breast milk develop better in the long run even of those reasons aren't isolated those studies are still meaningful and they're still important and we think all the evidence shows that there is some sort of a risk to your child.
Even if it's not a risk in the sense that your child is not going to be alive, that your child's not going to be healthy, we wouldn't say that.
But it's a risk in the fact that as a parent we think you're obliged to try and provide the best potential outcomes for your children.
Yes, there are instances in which you will not always be successful.
You will not always be able to predict what is going to be good for your child.
But generally what we know shows that breastfeeding is better for your child in the long run and this presents some sort of a risk to your child from maximizing their full potential which we think as something that they cannot control, is something that a parent is responsible to do as the caregiver for that person.
We think that in order to disincentivize that risk you can do two options.
First, is the state you can put a ban on infant formula but we think that this is rather drastic and isn't part of western liberal state that's supposed to maximize individual freedom.
We think individuals should still be free to make this decision given that the risks of infant formula are not immensely high.
But you can also do things like tax infant formula which creates an obvious disincentive to use it and shifts behavior.
It means that more children are going to be fed from breast milk which ultimately is better for those children and so additionally, we think that outside given that there is an alternative, given that you could otherwise breastfeed, we think that infant formula should be treated basically like any other product, any other thing that you would buy at the store and just like there is a tax on my eggs and there's a tax on my milk, I think it is perfectly fine to say that you should tax infant formula in that same way.
Given that is not a necessary commodity, given that it's not something that you absolutely need except in the instances that we've already said we'll give exceptions for, we think that it should just be treated as any other product.
Finally, as we've been saying throughout this round, easy alternatives exist.
You could otherwise choose to breastfeed and yes there's some sort of a stigma against breastfeeding in certain areas but we think that overall breastfeeding is widely accepted especially in more liberal areas.
You can do this in public in many instances.
We think that it's something that's easy to do and yes while it can be a little bit painful in some instances if a baby is teething, it generally does not have major harms for the mother and in in instances where it does, we're fine with having exceptions but for the most part we should tax infant formulas.