We should not fight for palestinian independence.
We think that the debate over palestinian independence is really a debate over whether or not israel has a right to exist, has a right, just like every other country, to maintain control over its borders, because we think that palestinian independence in the state independent state of palestine would pose an existential threat to israel.
Now there's a difference between this type of independence movement and other types of independence movements like the catalonian independence movement in spain, because while there are certainly hostilities between places like catalonia and larger spain, those hostilities are not nearly as tense.
Those hostilities don't have the same history of violence that this independence movement poses.
Palestine and palestinian actors have shown, time and time again, that they are willing to use deadly force against israeli civilians doing things like launching rocket attacks, having stabbings in israeli cities, going out into rural israeli areas and killing innocent innocent civilians.
We think that if palestine was able to get its independence, we don't think that these things are going to stop.
We think that there are immense amounts of animosity between arabs and israelis in the region, and we think that putting such a close enemy within the borders of existing israel would would pose an immense threat to the state of israel.
So, why do we think israel has the right to exist?
Firstly, we think that israel has a reparative justice claim because of the centuries of oppression that the jewish people have faced.
This is the ancestral land of of the jews.
This is the ancestral land that citizens of israel feel an attachment to, and it's not just recent history through things like the holocaust and anti-semitism that existed throughout europe and european nations in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
It's about centuries of oppression, going back to the romans.
It's about the fact that all throughout the middle centuries, anti-semitism ran rampant.
It was illegal to be jewish in many places.
Jews were killed in many places simply because of who they were who because of who they were, and anti-semitism continues to exist to this day.
Because of this immense amount of injustice that was done by almost all actors, whether they be arabs or europeans, we think that the jews have a right to an independent state.
We think that all peoples that wish to conglomerate together and wish to form a state should have the ability to do so.
The the right to self-governance is tantamount to a just state and because of that, we think that in the state of israel, we have an example of that: a group of people who have a tie to this land, a clear tie to this land, who want the state to come into existence.
Now, there are people that say that this land was taken from palestinians and therefore, it should be given back.
But at this point, nearly sixty years after the founding of israel, we think it's far too late to displace the people that are currently within the state.
Maybe this would have been a discussion in the nineteen fifties when israel was being founded, but we think that at this point in twenty eighteen, it is unjust to take that land away from israel.
Given that that is the case, given that israel has a clear right to exist, a clear right to maintain integrity over its borders, we think that it is unfair to create an independent state for israel, to create an independent state next to israel that is going to form a clear counterbalance to them, that's going to form a clear enemy directly at their borders, and we think that because of the centuries of animosity, independence is not going to remove the amount of violence that palestine is going to inflict on israel and the threat that it's going to pose.
For these reasons, we should not fight for palestinian independence.