We should not abolish open primaries in the united states.
So in this debate we have two main arguments as to why we think open primaries should should maintain their status within the american process.
Firstly it's about how democratic influence in a deeply parsing county is only possible for those in the minority if you have an open primary and secondly we're gonna talk about why open primaries are just better for the parties themselves and better for the entities that are holding these primaries.
So firstly, on the democratic process.
Because of gerrymandering and because of the fact that people simply can be a minority in a very deeply red or deeply blue district there are people that are going to be within districts that don't have the ability to meaningfully cast a vote in an election.
Open primaries are an opportunity for people that are mismatched with the location they live in to have a say in what is going to happen and in who is going to represent them.
Because if you are a democrat in a deeply red, deeply republican county, no matter what happens you're not going to be able to elect a democrat because you are just deeply outnumbered.
What allows to be happen what is allowed to happen in a open primary situation is that person can go and vote in the republican primary.
They can recognize that their best chance of getting some sort of representation is not in the general election but in the primary because the primary will end up determining who is going to govern because of the proportions of party members in that district.
What this means is that when you have open primaries, when you have these deeply partisan districts, people actually get to have a say in who is going to be governing them which means that if you're a democrat in a deeply red district or vice versa you can go into an open primary and vote for a candidate that is more moderate and more representative of of your views and therefore you're more likely to get actual democratic representation in these deeply skewed states.
We think that because the opposition party will never win people otherwise don't get a meaningful vote when you have a system of closed primaries and open primaries allow them to have that say.
This is simply a more democratic system that better reflects the will of the people and better reflects what the purpose of our democracy actually entails.
We also think secondly and broadly this is just going to be better for parties.
Why is the case?
We don't think that you're going to have rogue saboteurs because people that really care also want a say in their preferred party because you only get one vote.
You can't vote in the place with an open primary you can't vote in both primaries.
So you want to say in the in the candidate that you want to have represent you.
So we don't think you're just going to have massive amounts of democrats going to a republican open primary because then they can't have a chance of influencing who the democrat will be.
So given that that's the case this is likely going to bring in independence.
People that aren't registered in either party are the ones that are most likely going to become a part take part in these open primaries.
Independents are crucial to actually winning elections.
Having them influence a nominee means you're more likely to get an electable moderate rather than a partisan hack.
And at the end of the day when you have a competitive election, which many of these elections are, what you need to have is not just that you're base turns out but also that the independents that are turning out prefer your candidate to the candidate on the other side.
In the long run we think the party can be more successful through long term moderate action than trying to get the most liberal or conservative people in because that just increases the amount of tension that exists in the current political system, it increases the discrepancy between the elected officials and the much more moderate general public that actually exists, and we think that in a system in which you elect more moderate people your barty your party brand just becomes better in the area in which people are voting and generally we think you get better electoral votes in the long run.
When you get moderates you get a more successful party and when you have open primaries you allow the democratic process to flourish even in deeply red or blue districts.
For these reasons we should not abolish open primaries in the united states.