We should abandon coal mining.
In this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why it's important not to coal mine any further.
The first is about global warming.
Recognize and we think that this is ultimately the most important point in this debate.
Whether you our other arguments doesn't compare to the importance of global warming.
Global warming is the biggest threat to humanity.
It is indisputable at this point that global warming is being caused by human actions and by COTwo and fossil fuel emissions.
Global warming is doing things for example like raising sea levels which is especially impactful because it destroys economic hubs in cities which are largely located in coastal regions because these coastal regions are historically the most economically viable because they open trade routes.
There's also more extreme weather events which in addition to costing hundreds and thousands of lives every single year from things like hurricanes and tornadoes and blizzards and these other more extreme weather events that we've seen especially in the last few years, it also cost millions and billions of dollars in economic damage when a city like houston is totally ravaged by a hurricane that it was simply unprepared for.
Global warming is also causing a lack of food and clean water.
The reason for this is that when you have increased heat it leads to more water being evaporated from fresh water sources and ultimately that water is more likely than not going to result is going to end up in salt water sources which means we're losing reserves of fresh water but also seasons become far more irregular because of the global warming patters we've seen which means that you can't have predictable farming seasons and you have a lack of food.
We are rapidly approaching a tipping point of no return at which our projections to of global warming will exceed a certain certain amount of temperature over the next fifty years and it will be impossible to reverse the damage that we've done so far.
We need to care about global warming and we need to care now not only for our own survival, but the survival of the children that will be born into the world following us, children that had no control over the harm that we've brought on our planet and had no control over being born into this situation.
We only have one planet and one opportunity.
Sustainable energy in the form of clean energy is essential to make this change happen and coal mining is entirely counterproductive to this occurrence because obviously coal mining does not burn clean.
It burns and increases the problems that we're seeing in our society.
It's increasing its it's increasing our rates of global warming.
That is unacceptable.
Secondly, we think that there are fungible resources for energy.
There are fungible resources that can be invested into any type of energy output and we think we need to shift to green energy.
It's so it's obviously first and foremost, it's obviously the case that there's only a fungible amount of resources in the world that's going to be spent on energy.
We think that if you move that resource from coal mining to green energy, you're likely to get far more efficient production of green energy moving forward.
We're able to expand more and more money and things like solar or wind power.
The technology that uses the technology that grows from those fields, the the solar cells that we're able to produce, the efficiency of the wind turbines that we're able to produce, these things get better and better and it means that not only does the energy green energy become cheaper to produce but it also becomes more efficient over time and more competitive as far as per unit output of energy with coal.
Finally and lastly, coal mining is simply a dangerous job.
So even if you don't think that it's important to shift to green energy funding, given the fact that we are increasing our harm from global warming, we also think that it's important to recognize that these jobs are dangerous and can often lead to the death or injury of people that work in them.
We think then on all levels coal mining is simply not a part of our current society that needs to continue.
It's a harmful and detrimental aspect of our economy and we should abandon coal mining.