We should not limit the exploitation of natural resources.
So, in this round, we're going to defend a standard in which current limitations on the exploitation of natural resources should probably be removed, and we think that we just need to progress as much as we can as a species, using the natural resources we have available.
Three main arguments: the first argument is that we believe that we are at the point of no return when it comes to global warming.
We are past meaningful tipping points that likely mean that global temperatures will rise by about four degrees celsius in the next one hundred years, and that means that we are going to approach a world in which global ice caps are melting, in which sea levels are rising, in which there are massively there are massively increased and stronger natural disasters.
We think that we need to progress as much as we can technologically as a species in order to try and prevent this because, at this point, just cutting back our use of natural resources isn't going to do anything for us.
We need to get to the point technologically where we know how to reverse the damage that we've done, and this is likely going to require an immense amount of investigation, an immense amount of engineering, and an immense exploitation of our natural resources.
And if nothing else, we think we're going to need those natural resources in order to build the infrastructure inland that we're going to need in order to survive when massive amounts of populations start moving away from coastlines.
But, additionally, if there were ever a time to limit the exploitation of natural resources, we think setting this limitation now is unjust because, at this point, there are many developing nations that have suffered at the exploitation of many of the developed nations in the world, developed nations that had massive resource extraction, natural resource extraction from these areas in order to profit for themselves, in order to build themselves up.
And now that these countries are at the point where they have the infrastructure to develop, they have the desire to develop, and they have the investment to develop, we think that, at this point, limiting the global exploitation of natural resources is a massive detriment to these to these countries.
And these are, right now, the countries that are also most at at risk of being harmed by global warming, because they don't have the infrastructure developed, they don't have the the level of development necessary in order to combat the growing harms that are going to arise from global warming.
And so, we think that it's important that these developing countries have an opportunity to advance, and that means not limiting their ability to maximize their natural resources and exploit their natural resources.
But finally, when people argue about conservation and saying, you know, five generations down the line, our our ancestors are going to be lacking for these natural resources because we used them, if we are able to make it five generations down the line, we're likely going to be at a point technologically where we don't have to worry about the the natural resources we have here on earth, because there are an abundance of natural resources available to us in space in things like the asteroid belt, and this is something that is already being developed.
There are already major corporations that are building the craft that will be used to go and mine and mine asteroids.
We already have the ability to land on these asteroids, and there's so much there so many resources available in the asteroid belt, not just things like precious metals, but also things like water available.
These are things that are going to be immensely valuable and because of the massive amount of resources there are, it's going to be an incredibly profitable business, which is why it is growing so quickly.
So we don't think we actually have a massive need to conserve those natural resources, but we do have a massive urgency now to exploit them in order to save ourselves.
For these reasons, we should limit the we should not limit the exploitation of natural resources.