We should not fight global warming.
To say that we should not fight global warming is not to say that we don't acknowledge the many many problems that are going to arise from global warming.
On side opposition we're not science deniers.
Rather we take a more realistic view of the world that we currently live in and the science as it stands than side government and we're going to explain why instead of fighting global warming we need to invest as many resources as we can in planning for the inevitable doom that will come because of global warming.
The first argument that the government side makes is that climate change is going to lead to massive harms like the fact that the entire nation of bangladesh will likely be underwater, that new york city will be under water, that countries large and small are going to be affected in myriad ways.
We believe that this is true but it is also irreversible at this point.
There are essentially two views on global warming and the outcomes that will occur: one view is that we are past the tipping point.
That global sea levels are going to rise no matter what actions we take, that the earth will warm by four degrees celsius over the next one hundred years and that the polar ice caps are essentially going to entirely melt.
If this is the case, then there's no action that we can take right now to change the events that are going to come.
There's no way, with enough carbon emission carbon emissions deductions, or anything of that sort, that we are going to change those outcomes.
And given that that is highly probable that we are doomed anyway we need to put every resource we can not into global warming prevention, but global warming preparation.
The other outlook is that well, maybe global warming isn't isn't irreversible at this point.
Maybe we can still prevent the worst possible outcomes but this, all scientists that believe this agree that we would need to change our activity to such a dramatic degree that it is highly unlikely that developed and developing nations could ever come together in a way that would make this feasible.
Carbon emissions will need to be cut by fifty percent or greater in order for us to actually stand a chance of preventing the outcomes of global warming, which we think side government has done nothing to show is at all feasible, which again means we think we need to shift resources any resources that are available, any resources that we could've poured into global warming, fighting global warming, into global warming prevention.
The second argument they make is about economic doom and saying that global warming is going to devastate food production, and things like the great plains are going to become unplantable and china is going to become entirely desert, again, exactly.
These are the problems that global warming is going to cause and no change to the level of carbon emissions that we make are going to prevent these outcomes from happening.
Now side government might say something like: " well, hold on we can also invest in things that remove carbon from the atmosphere. "
But that's a moon shot.
This is something that people been working on for two decades now and it still hasn't it hasn't produced any fruitful yields.
Given even if we were, in ten fifteen twenty years, able to find something that could do some sort of carbon removal from the atmosphere, we don't think that it would be enough by that point to actually prevent the worst outcomes which means again we need to focus on on protection.
Finally they say that the outcomes are unpredictable and that things could happen like the shift in the gulf stream.
So while it's true that some outcomes are unpredictable many of our models allow us to know the likely outcomes that are going to occur such as rising sea levels and how that's going to shift where land is in the world.
And even if you can't predict it we are we are almost certainly past the tipping point, which means that we should use all of the knowledge we have to plan as best we can.
Maybe it won't be a hundred percent successful but given the horrible situation we're in we need to do everything we can.
For these reasons we should not fight global warming.