We should adopt teacher tenure reform.
So in the status quo the way tenure works is largely that individuals that receive tenure have their job guaranteed unless they do something egregious that would void their contract things that go beyond being poor teachers to things that are downright illegal or actively harmful to student.
So we're going to reform teacher tenure in two ways.
Firstly, instead of a guaranteed lifelong contract or long term contract, you review tenured teachers once every five years so that their contract can be renewed on a five year basis, which means that theachers still have some stability in their workplace, they still some guarantee of job security, but it's not a lifelong guarantee and secondly, we would lower the bar for firing that currently exists so that if teachers are routinely shown to be ineffective, if students routinely show to be poor performers under these teachers they could be released from these contracts even if they have tenure and we think that obviously tenure exists in large part to attract people to a low paying job that is being a teacher so in order to make up for that we would also increase salaries for tenured and non-tenured teachers to attract more candidates to the field okay, so our primary argument in this debate is that education needs to prioritize student learning over everything else.
We think that the education system exists first and foremost to ensure that that society can create productive and knowledgeable citizens that can go on to make informed decisions and to be productive members of our economic system.
We think that tenure itself incentivizes teachers to be lazy.
Once a teacher in the status quo receives tenure, as long as they don't do anything to massively screw up, as long as they do anything that puts an undue burden on the school or onto students, they can essentially skate by and receive paycheck after paycheck without having to do anything to really improve students' lives.
And this results in long term harm for students because if students are subject to these teachers there are likely not going to learn the things that are necessary for them to be successful in the future and you can't just make these things up moving forward with the current school system continues to push you forward even if you haven't achieved the learning goals you're supposed to which means that there is a lifelong detriment for students moving forward.
We also think that tenured teachers make incredibly difficult to hire younger more innovative teachers which means teachers that are younger that otherwise could bring fresh blood into a school new ideas into a classroom and can really help students become more participatory and active learners in their day to day life are shut out by individuals that that receive tenure twenty or thirty years ago and continue to sit there doing the same old teaching patterns that have shown to be effective in the past simply because they have tenure.
We think that this is unacceptable because it means that not only are students being forced to learn from teachers that aren't enthusiastic about their job but they're also being denied the potential for fresh blood that could otherwise make it much easier for them to learn and to give them a new excitement about learning that ultimately could create lifelong learners which should be the goal of the school system.
Finally we would say that principally no job should have this sort of long term guarantee that tenure ensures.
We think that for all other professional jobs or for almost all other professional jobs, there's no similarity of tenure in other fields.
We don't think that people should be given a guaranteed contract simply because they have shown a short term level of performance that is that is acceptable.
We think that in most professional spear-spheres individuals are constantly earning their right to employment earning their job through showing the results of their labor.
We think that teachers being held to that same standard shouldn't be something that is unacceptable and it isn't something that is outrageous to request of our teachers.
Given the importance of education for our society and for our students we think that that type of priority that type of a system, one that prioritizes student learning is much more important than maintaining the tenure system that mostly just benefits long term teachers.
And for these reasons, we should adopt teacher tenure reform.