We should increase local government.
So, when we're talking about increasing local government, we think that this involves a few things.
First, we're going to increase the regulatory systems that exist at the local level.
So right now, many regulations occur at either the state or the federal level.
We think that those things would be scrutinized at a very high level and in areas in which they weren't deemed to be entirely necessary to be legislated at that level, for example, environmental protections may need to be legislated at that level, but for many things, such as local communal laws, other things that can be handled on a community basis, regulation is going to be left with them.
We're gonna give more legislative authority to locales as opposed to state or federal levels as a principle for this debate.
So, a few reasons why we think this should be the case: first, it's important to recognize that often when it comes to local government, those governments are far less partisan than state or federal governments.
And the reason for this is that when you're voting in a local election, you're often voting for just one of your neighbors, for one of your peers.
You're living in the community that you will be legislating in, that you will be voting in, and there's much less esteem that comes with that and therefore, much less of a need for vitriol to try and get into a public office.
This means that the campaigns that occur are much less divisive, are much less vitriolic.
It means that when you have a dialogue with your elected official, you know that person on a personal level and you can really judge for yourself whether or not they have your best interest in mind.
And when you have less partisan politics, we think you have less tribalism, we think you come to conclusions that are better for the community rather than better for a political party, and all of that is preferable.
It also allows communities to select the laws that best suit them.
So, one great example of laws that probably should be communal, that are currently federal, are drug laws.
There's no particular reason why the why those laws can't exist at a communal level rather than a federal level and, in fact, with the with the legalization of marijuana in various municipalities, what we've often seen is that that legislation is also subject to local scrutiny.
For example, massachusetts legalized marijuana but in order to actually open up a shop in a particular municipality, that that there's legislation that has to be passed by that municipality to allow that.
And it means that you can have much much more flexibility from one community to the other to have laws that best suit them, that actually allow for their ideas and their social mores to to influence the law.
It also means that you get closer and closer to direct democracy.
Direct democracy is a much more is the most representative form that we can have of democracy, the idea that all people vote on all things.
But obviously, this is not feasible in most situations.
But when you get to smaller and smaller levels of government, when you have people more directly in line with and directly closer to those people that are representing them, when you have more people involved in local government and those people having more power, it means that you have a a system that more approximates direct democracy and is therefore, by default, more representative.
On top of all of this, we think that aside from the fact that there's going to be less partisanship, you just have less vitriol.
You have a system, a local system, in which communities need to continue to get along.
You need to continue to work with your neighbor, to to understand each other and to kind of have an open line of communication in order for there to be any peace in your community.
Which means by which means that you need to use less vitriol in your elections in order to keep your communities together, which we think is likely going to occur.
For all of these reasons, we should increase local government.