Community service should not be mandatory.
In this round we're going to make two broad arguments about why community service shouldn't be mandatory.
The first is about why this would be an unjust mandate and the second is about bad outcomes so bad things that would arise if community service were to be mandatory.
First on the mandate.
We think that the government is naturally unjust.
The reason for this is that in order for the government to use its coercive apparatus in order for the government to wield the immense amount of power in restricting the freedom that one has we think that in order for any sort of power structure like this to be in place one must first have consented to that power structure.
In the case of the government we would say that there is very little if any consent of the people.
Most do not choose to be born into the community they're born into or to live in the community they find themselves in most people did not consent explicitly to the government and there's no real structural way that you could.
The government we would say becomes just by maximizing freedom because it's impossible to actually gain consent from people it's impossible to have a real social construct the way that we maximize the way that we create a just proxy for consent is by recognizing that people consent or people would theoretically want to be in the government because it maximizes their freedom.
It means that they can express their rights that they have certain protections and given that that is the case we think that the government's mandate the underlying priority of the government is to maximize freedom we think that mandatory community service clearly undermines that.
It forces people to labor for a community that they may have no attachment to at all and it means that they're doing this without having sort of without ever being paid for their labor it also creates a trade off with time when you're spending some of your time doing community service there that's time when you cannot alternatively be using that same amount of labor power that same amount of productive force to earn money that will make your life better.
Maybe it's a nice thought.
The idea that everyone should in an ideal world care about their community should care enough to do community service.
But it loses all this moral positivity when the service is done by force when people are forced into doing these things instead of doing it from their own volition from them from their own free will and it's being done in such a way that undermines the government's mandate of maximizing freedom.
Secondly bad outcomes.
We think that there are two broad branches.
First you decrease the amount of work available for public servants.
So let's think about what this community service is actually going to look like.
It's going to look like public works jobs it's going to look like municipal jobs that are being done through free labor.
Eventually you're going to have enough free labor if you meet mandatory community service that you don't actually need to hire people to do the jobs that community service are filling it means fewer jobs for teachers for librarians for public works people these are typically low paying jobs already and it means that in reality you're harming all you're harming the worst off that you're presumably trying to help through this community service.
Furthermore we think the service is likely to be done poorly.
We think that you plug community organizations and other places with people that do not want to be there that do not want to help you get work that is done in a lack a lackadaisical manner and the work itself just isn't helpful if a work is done in a half done way we think that you're not actually getting any progress you're just wasting everyone's time.
It's better to encourage the community service through education and other community building programs.
These are ways that you get earnest people and well done work from people who want to be there.
If you force people to be in this place they're not going to do the work well they're going to take jobs away from other people people that really do need the money in most cases and you're doing it in a way that undermines the just nature of the government.
For these reasons community service should not be mandatory.