We should not increase drug testing.
So first just to make this to be clear we're going to talk about two areas of drug testing in particular: the first is drug testing for businesses and the second is drug testing for people to get benefits, government drug testing of individuals for things like parole, housing, benefits, welfare these types of things.
We don't think this type of drug testing should increase we think that these are more important than sectors like sport or other areas where drug testing may take place.
So firstly we would say that increasing drug testing increases the drug stigma and the harm that is created.
The idea of drug testing works off of stereotyping drug users in negative and often in accurate ways.
We drug we test people for drugs in business because we think that if you hire them for a job, if you hire a drug user for the job, they're not going to be capable of doing their job well, they're not going to be capable of coming to work sober, they're not going to be capable of coming to work at all.
They're going to do things that bring blemishes on your company and they ultimately slow your productivity and we drug test people for welfare and for parole and all these things because we think that if you are a drug user you're intrinsically unfit to be a free citizen, you're intrinsically unfit to have basic rights met like the right to healthcare, the right to housing, or the right to a basic and decent standard of living.
We say that drug testing is a violation of human decency and something that obviously means you are you are a deplorable human being the deplorable human being and someone that simply should not be tolerated.
The belief that people can't do their jobs aren't suitable for aid or housing or any number of things are essential to the reason we drug test and only become further are only increased when we increase drug testing.
We need to recognize that if we continue to drug test if we drug test more these are the stereotypes we put forward but they're simply not true.
First on being a simply a human being.
The idea that drugs make you less of a human being that they make you fundamentally unfit for compassion and for aid and for freedom and for welfare these are things that people depend on every day and if we said that just because you had a blemish that society did not like and that need you undeserving of this type of human compassion then every person is undeserving of this type of human compassion.
Every person should be stripped of their well being and just because someone is a drug user doesn't mean that they don't deserve this type of freedom.
It's also not the case that drug use means you're coming to work stoned or you're going to come to work and not be able to do your job or be an irresponsible person.
There are ways that you can get that information otherwise and it and if you if someone is able to come to a job interview if they're able to show you that they can be a capable human being why would you just assume that because they use drugs they are someone that's addicted there some of that has a problem with drug test doesn't reveal the severity of drug use it just reveals some drug use.
Drugs are a personal choice and people should be allowed to make that decision to use responsibly if they choose to do so.
Finally we think there's a right to privacy that's being violated here.
People should be able to do what they want behind closed doors as long as it isn't hurting anyone.
We fundamentally believe that is just for people to have a private life.
There many ways to get relevant information that someone like an employer might want.
You can get references, you can look at a resume, you can call up past employers.
These are ways these are much better indicators of whether or not someone is going to be able to do their job in a normal capacity than to do things like drug test because it's just more correlated with future performance then drug test is with future performance.
If we open the door for this one instance for allow to allow employers parolees we use the government to investigate our lives just to deny us services or deny us jobs they can likely find a reason to investigate any part of life that they want this is a door that I am unable to open and unwilling to open and for these reasons we should not increase drug testing.