We should not abolish foster care.
We think that in a world without foster care, you often leave children in a situation where one of three things occur: they are either forced to live with family that are unable to take care of them for reasons I'll explain later, they're forced to stay in orphanages where they watch as younger children are able to be adopted and they simply stay there with very little hope of prospering and being adopted themselves, or they end up in a situation when their alone, on their own, often on the street.
All of these we think are bad outcomes, and foster care is preferable.
So firstly, we say that foster care simply gives children a home.
Foster programs give financial breaks to adults that allow people to take children into their home, even if they're not adopting them, and care for them.
This provides a number of foundational aspects to a child's life that cannot be mimicked in these other environments.
The first is a stable educational system.
Having a solid educational foundation, especially during young adulthood, is one of the most crucial aspects that a child can have if they want to succeed in the future.
In order to be able to be a successful person, you need to have the educational backing to get a job, to learn more about the world and to think critically about the world, and to learn how to solve problems.
All these things a stable educational system can provide.
Secondly, it provides a stable home life that gives a foundation for future behavior as well as a support structure that you know you can depend on.
Having the ability to go to a foster parent and say, " this is the struggle I'm facing.
This was the help I need ", and know that you will be there the next day, even though you're struggling, ia an incredibly important thing for some to have, both emotionally and for the well-being of their future, to be able to learn from these adults and have some sort of guidance in their lives.
And some children never have these opportunities.
Foster homes give give one of the only ways out of an orphanage, and it's a situation which children feel trapped at older ages when they're stuck in an orphanage and that they'll likely never be adopted, which means they end up wallowing in a situation where they don't get these types of foundational impacts in their lives.
They don't get a stable education system.
They don't get a stable household system.
They don't get the opportunities to have some sort of parental figure, even if it's not their parents directly.
Okay.
So secondly, one of the big alternatives is that people end up living with whatever family they have left.
We think that this is actually almost always a worse option.
The alternative of family care is often not viable at all for children for three main reasons.
First, you can have a situation which there's simply no family left around, which means that child is stuck caring for themselves.
That child is stuck either in an orphanage or on the streets or, you know, in whatever low-income housing they can find, trying to take care of themselves without having developed the skills that allow them to do that successfully.
Second, they can end up in an abusive family structure in which children are harmed by abusive relatives that are resentful of the fact that they're in the household, resentful of the burden that's being placed on them, and results in that child being traumatized long term, not having the some sort the same sort of stable parental figure in their life that foster programs can provide.
Thirdly, you can be put in a situation of a financially insecure family in which you place an immense burden on that family that these people that that family never asked for.
They never asked to take in an additional relative.
They never asked to care for a child that was not there, and just because they are family does not mean that they have the financial capability of taking care of that person, which often leads to options: one, where that child is left alone again, or option two, where the family takes out that anger on the child.
None of these are good options, but foster care provides a viable alternative to this scenario and provides the types of foundational lessons in the child's life that we think can set them up for success, even if they've struggled in their past.
For these reasons, we should not abolish foster care.