Sex schools should not be banned.
In this debate, we're going to make two main arguments about why single-sex schools shouldn't be banned and why they're actually a benefit to our education system and to people that use them.
All right.
So firstly, we're gonna talk about the justification for a ban and, principally, why this doesn't meet that justification, and secondly, we're gonna talk about the pragmatic benefits of single-sex schools.
All right.
On the first point: we believe that the government should exist to maximize freedom.
The reason for this is that generally the government is not able to attain consent for the actions it makes from the people.
Even if people are able to vote regularly, even if people are able to take action in a civic manner, people don't have a choice generally about the nation that they're born into, the laws that apply to them, the way that society construes and contains what they are able to do.
And for these reasons, ensuring that the government maximizes freedom is a way of ensuring the highest quality of life for the largest group of people and for creating a government that people would consent into if they could meaningfully consent.
And this is a way to create sort of a proxy for consent.
This means that you can only ban thing under certain circumstances, because freedom freedom detracts so, and this is because ban obviously limits those things that people can do.
It's a limit on freedom and so to limit that freedom, needs to have some sort of good purpose.
So, the first reason is obvious.
If your action constrains the freedom of other people, this is something in which the government has at least the option to step in, and this is what most laws are structured around, laws that prohibit things like murder, assault, other types of actions that cause physical bodily harm on to others.
Another reason why an wide ban may be okay is because there's an asymmetry of information that doesn't allow for people to make rational choices, and therefore the government makes up for that asymmetry of information by stepping in and making those rational choices for members of its society.
And the third reason could be that there's some sort of large public harm.
We think that single-sex schools clearly do not meet any of these criteria.
There's no detraction of freedom that occurs if single-sex schools are allowed to happen.
There's no asymmetry of information that would cause harm unto people that choose that go to go to single-sex schools, and there's clearly no outlying public harm that exists from single-sex schools.
So, based on this, we don't think that the government would be principally justified in banning single-sex schools.
So why are they pragmatically good regardless of all that?
Firstly, we would say that there's a massive distraction that comes from having members of the other sex in the same classroom.
This is particularly true for girls who are in middle school and in high school in the later part of their primary education, because there's an immense amount of stigma that's placed on our in on girls within our patriarchal society about their level of participation in the classroom, their ability to speak up and speak their mind, the ability to show that they have knowledge and to outshine their male peers.
All these things are demonized within the classroom in a mixed-gender setting, and these are valuable and this is a reason why girls-only schools are a valuable resource, because it provides girls with the opportunity to learn in an environment where they don't have to worry about those patriarchal norms, and they don't have to worry about being called too outspoken, or too loud, or too boisterous, or too smart, all these things that are placed on girls at a young age when they show academic excellence and when they show that they know what they're talking about in the classroom in especially in areas where men traditionally dominate, so in sciences and things like this.
We think that parents should have the choice to make their this decision for their children.
Given that it can provide a alternative learning environment that can really allow people to prosper within the classroom, especially girls that are facing these harmful patriarchal norms, we don't think it's problematic to have parents have this choice.
We don't think that the government is principally justified in making this ban and for these reasons, single-sex schools should not be banned.