We should not raise the corporate tax.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments, the first of which is about why we think raising the corporate tax will be harmful for the economy broadly, and secondly, we want to make a principled claim about taxes and why higher taxes are always unjust.
So, first, the impact on the economy.
We think that corporate taxes harm the economy in one main way, which is that corporate taxes have a massive negative impact on jobs.
When you are a corporation and you're doing your cost calculus, you need to try and maximize as much profit as you possibly can.
One, it's just the desire that these people have.
It's the desire that successful people have and successful corporations to maximize their profit.
But two, these corporations also have a responsibility to their shareholders to try and do the same.
When you have a higher tax rate, you don't just decide: okay.
Well, we're willing to accept lower profit.
No.
You make adjustments to your business in order to maintain that same profit level, even with those higher taxes.
And one of the main ways in which that occurs is that corporations lay off employees in order in order to maintain their profits.
This means that when you're taxing corporations at a higher level, the people that are running the corporations are still going to get their income at the end of the day.
They're still going to put money in their pockets.
But there are a number of people, hardworking individuals, who are often in jobs that aren't incredibly high paying and are just trying to make ends meet.
These are the people that are getting laid off, and these are the people who you're harming with corporate taxes.
Additionally, corporations can recognize and say, " look.
Our production process is too expensive in the united states.
We're going to move offshore in order to avoid these taxes. "
And that again leads to even more layoffs than just choosing to have a certain amount of layoffs.
It means that everyone in the company is going to be removed from having a job, which only multiplies the impact that we've already laid out.
The alternative is also bad because if there are no layoffs, the only other way to make some sort of to maintain the profit level you currently have is to raise the prices on your products, which we think is less likely because these corporations won't be as competitive with their foreign products and products that are being shipped in, but it's also possible that you'll hurt the consumer when you have these higher tax rates.
So you're either having a situation which there's higher unemployment and more layoffs or where there are higher prices which obviously impact all those in the economy.
But secondly, we think that taxes are principally unjust.
These corporations already pay a tremendous amount of money to the federal government.
Even with loopholes, even with offshore accounts, they still pay tremendous tremendously high amounts of money.
But we think that what these corporations are are just a conglomeration of hardworking individuals that are trying to work within a free market.
And, yes, we think corporations deserve to pay some taxes, because the government exists in such a way to ensure that corporations can thrive, but we don't think that means that large portions of of the labor that these people are putting in, large portions of the corporate production, should be going directly to the government.
We think that that is essentially theft.
We think that corporate tax rates, right now, are as high as they need to be and that raising those tax rates any higher, without any sort of justification or any sort of additional benefit that the government intends to give to these corporations, is doing so just for the purpose of taking the money from these corporations and not for any sort of principled reason.
And because of that, we think that these higher taxes are ultimately going to be unjust, and they're going to be pragmatically harmful for the economy.
For these reasons, we should not raise the corporate tax.