We should prohibit pipeline transport.
So, we're going to ban pipeline transfer for oil, gas, coal, and any other fossil fuels.
We're not talking about pipeline transport like sewage systems.
We're not talking about pipeline transport in small scales within homes, things like that.
We're talking about long long pipelines that transport different types of fuel across entire countries, across thousands of miles.
These are the types of pipelines that we're focusing on.
Our first argument is that we should be reducing our dependency and use of these fossil fuels, generally, and pipelines are generally used to increase that type of expansion.
If you look at, for example, a recent controversy that occurred in north dakota, in the united states, the north dakota pipeline was being expanded to try and better transfer different types of oil from canada into the united states, and it caused a massive amount of backlash.
But this pipeline existed for the purpose of increasing the ability for the united states to use fossil fuels.
But fossil fuels, as science has proven, time and again, as is very clear at this point, are leading to the a large almost the largest contributor of global warming in the status quo.
And global warming is the biggest threat that humanity is going to face in the next one hundred years, bar something like a massive asteroid coming out of the sky.
It's going to change sea levels and force many people to move inland, which is a huge problem when you consider the fact that most of the largest cities in the world exist on the coast for the purpose of things like trade.
It also is going to force us to have more erratic and dangerous natural disasters at a more frequent rate.
You're going to see more intense storms.
You're going to see storms occur in areas where they had never or very rarely occurred before more frequently, which is going to obviously have a massive human and economic toll.
And it's also going to create irregular weather patterns which make growing seasons much more difficult and lead to a decrease in crop yield and a decrease in drinkable water, which is obviously going to destabilize many regions of the world.
We think that pipeline transport makes it easier to use fossil fuels, and increased pipeline transport also means more fossil fuels are being used.
If we rid ourselves of pipeline transport altogether, it means there's a lower amount of fossil fuels that can be transported, a lower amount that can be used and, overall, less emissions that are leading to the rapidly deteriorating environment that we all live in.
But on top of that, there are other harms that come from pipeline transport, even if you're not just talking about global warming.
And one of the major harms is that these types of pipelines have led in the past to very dangerous spills.
When you have a pipeline like this, it's a very easy target for something like eco-terrorism, and there are just flaws that arise in the engineering of these pipelines, which means that often which and over the course of the past few decades, we've seen a number of spills occur, both on land and in the water, that have led to millions and millions of gallons of oil being spilled into natural areas that have destroyed ecosystems, that have ruined homes, and these things are toxic to many animals.
It's a dangerous environment to be around, and it's incredibly difficult to clean up once it has been spilled.
Pipelines are a much riskier form of transporting these types of fossil fuels than doing it through vehicles, or trains, or something like that.
And we think that those sorts of systems are preferable if you're going to maintain the use of fossil fuels.
For these reasons, we should prohibit pipeline transport.