Community service should not be mandatory.
In this round we're going to make two broad arguments about why we think mandatory community service is both unjust and leads to worse community service.
So let's go in that order.
First, why we believe that this is an unjust mandate.
We believe that the government exists fundamentally to maximize freedom.
The reason for this is that we believe that the reason that people organize into states fundamentally is to ensure that the freedoms that are otherwise not secure in the state of nature have some sort of enforcement body to protect, that people don't join into the state because they want the state to tell them how they should behave they don't join the state because they want the state to oversee how their communities behave but they join the state and would join the state from a state of nature because it ensures that certain protections and certain freedoms are in place.
And these are largely what we would call negative freedoms, the freedom to behave in a certain way unimpeded not positive freedoms not getting certain benefits but just the fact that you have the freedom to act in a certain way.
We think that freedom mainly serves as a proxy for consent, that in the status quo states simply have no mechanism to get the consent of the people.
There too many years of history and too many years of laws on the books for someone to reasonably consent to everything the state is doing and therefore the state uses freedom as a proxy for that consent.
They make laws that maximize freedom in a just state.
We think that mandatory community service is a clear trade off.
If one is forced to do this they can't do other things like earn an income, spend time bettering themselves, or spend time with their loved ones at the same time.
And we recognize that this trade off may not seem like a big deal but it is the government dictating that this is a good that people ought to and because of that because the government holds that belief the people are then forced to do this.
This is antithetical to the freedoms that the government exists to protect.
We don't think it's the role of the government to dictate how people must behave in a positive sense.
We think that historically states have been fairly problematic moral actors.
States have done a number of things that we would look back on as contemporary human beings and we would say that what they did in the past was problematic.
We think this leads to a preciden where states can simply decide what the good is and enforce that idea of the good on all people which we think is simply unacceptable, even if you were to get you good utilitarian ends.
But even on that we don't think you're likely to see good outcomes.
Why is this?
We think when you force people to do a community service that they otherwise would not want to do what you ultimately end up with is an influx of bodies in community service areas that's simply do not want to be there and they're going to put in half effort if that and ultimately slow down the productivity of community service organizations.
If I'm forced to be somewhere, if I'm forced to do a certain job I'm not getting any sort of compensation for, then ultimately if I don't want to be there I'm not going to put in my all, I'm not going to do a very good job and we think we would rather have more advocacy we would rather have well functioning community service organizations than those with a massive amount of manpower that they can't adequately control, command, or get to behave in an efficient way.
Or it's possible that you would be compensated for this and you would define community service much more broadly through things like public jobs like firefighters, teachers, etcetera but at that point if this is a mandated thing that needs to be done you're ultimately going to turn those things from careers into short term jobs and ultimately slash jobs of people that have held these positions for a long period of time.
No matter how you define community service, we think that it is outside of the realm of government action to mandate that people do this with their free time.
And for these reasons, community service should not be mandatory.