The use of AI should not be abandoned.
In this round, we're gonna talk about both the huge potential that AI holds for the world and also the huge investment that has already been made into AI and why we think it can be done safely and, more importantly, why it would be bad to pull back now.
Okay, so on that advancement: AI holds an immense amount of potential because it creates further knowledge off of the knowledge that we have already gained.
If we can create machines that are able to think and be and that are able to create further machines, if we are able to create artificial intelligence, the upper bound of human technological advancement can be exceeded far faster can be exceeded far beyond what it currently is today.
Let's look at a few ways that this happens.
We think that data analytics and finding trends in large numbers that humans cannot process is one thing that AI is, in the status quo, very good at and is ultimately going to get better at.
One thing that it helps with is something like scientific exploration.
For example, using google AI and using different types of AI, nasa's been able to identify more exoplanets, they've been able to identify different cosmic events that we haven't been able to understand previously.
AI is also useful for medicine in conducting longitudinal studies and seeing trends in behavior and seeing trends in medical treatment that humans aren't able to do.
AI is also beneficial for our entertainment.
Artificial intelligence and the creation of new technologies, the creation of new potential storytelling techniques, and all these types of things are a way that humans can be better in one way.
And there's also an ability to learn and to replace labor, and this is one of the most disruptive but also potentially best impacts of AI, is that if you can teach machines to be smart and to perform complex tax tasks, to understand what they're doing, it means that human later labor becomes more and more unnecessary.
And while some look at this as a scary thing that could happen, that robots are going to take away all of our jobs, if you have the same amount of production occurring, if you have the same amount of goods being created, if you have the same amount of output, it means that the growth is going to continue and that markets are able to support people doing things outside of labor.
It means there's enough goods to go around, even without humans having to spend huge portions of their lives laboring, oftentimes doing things they don't want to be doing.
This could lead to the biggest growth in quality of life in human history.
You just need to monitor it closely and build it with care and slowly and to have a kill switch built in, but this doesn't mean it needs to be abandoned right now.
We also think that what's been done so far means that it's going to be done more safely.
You've companies like IBM, companies like google, that are investing lots of money in trying to learn how to build AI in an ethical manner.
And more than that, you've just seen industries across the globe pour tons of money into the sector.
We think that bowing out now would lead to a loss in jobs, a loss of economic opportunity, and an immense loss in capital that's been invested on the premise that AI is going to be allowed to grow.
We think because of the immense potential, there's no chance it could actually be abandoned anyway.
Even if we were to abandon AI, as a country, in the united states or even if we, as a world, were to sign some sort of convention banning it, we think it would still go underground, because there's so much potential for gain.
Even if you do AI secretly and learn how to understand the markets better and market behavior, you can still make so much money off of this thing, but it means there's much less monitoring of how it gets developed.
We think that, overall, AI certainly has risks, but we understand that those risks exist, as do the smart people that are building it out, and we think they're able to build in checks in order to protect us.
We think that there's a far higher likelihood that this leads to greater economic and social gains and for these reasons, the use of AI should not be abandoned.