We should not cancel pride parades.
We think that, well, pride parades may certainly celebrate parts of the LGBT community more than others.
While they may not be perfect, they are certainly necessary in order to give a marginalized community that still faces immense discrimination an opportunity to celebrate themselves as valuable human beings.
The first argument that the government makes is that the pride parades provide a problematic narrative of the LGBTQ community.
It paints this community as a certain type of people, often as flamboyant individuals, and also that it often excludes trans people.
A number of responses to this: firstly we think that in, first let's address the argument about trans people.
First, in all honesty we think that the trans community should probably be separated from the LGBT from the LGB community.
We think that sexual orientation is a distinct is distinct from the identity that one holds over their gender, and many people that identify as trans don't feel a particularly strong tie to gay and lesbian individuals.
But additionally even if this is the case that they should be a unified community and that it excludes trans people, we still think that it's important that the marginalized members of the LGB community should be allowed to have this opportunity to express themselves and allowed to remove their marginalization for a time.
In terms of the idea that this is about only people that are flamboyant and that's the painting that's that's shown of these communities first, we think that this has changed dramatically.
Maybe back in san francisco in the mid nineteen nineties that's what the pride parades looked like, banal pride parades have become much more mainstream.
There's all sorts of gay and lesbian groups that come together from all walks of life that want to bring out an idea of what it means to be gay and to tell people, especially young people that they should be proud of who they are.
There's a massive narrative of accepting yourself and of how it's, additionally, okay to be in the closet.
One of the things that happens around the time of pride and pride parades is that there are many people that post on social media, very famous and celebrities that are in the community, they talk about how it's okay to be in the closet.
But additionally it also allows many people to find a community.
For example: my brother is gay.
My brother recently came out of the closet and and told us that he was gay.
My brother went to a pride parade for the first time in his life last year and found a community that he wasn't going to be able to find in the rural conservative part of new jersey that I am from.
And my brother isn't particularly flamboyant.
My brother doesn't fit into the stereotypes of what it means to be gay.
But he found acceptance.
He found pride at these parades.
And that is an immensely valuable experience to the thousands and millions of people that suffer without a community around them.
Pride gives an opportunity for people to come together and we think that that's incredibly important.
The other, the next argument that they make is that this creates a false perception of LGBT people and that a glasses over those darkest parts of discrimination.
So while it may not talk exclusively about the worst parts of the discrimination that exists, we think you need to have times of celebration so that people can continue to fight.
If every aspect of the gay movement is all about people talking about the hardships that they experience and depressing themselves, we think that people lose the ability to fight on.
People lose the ability to advocate over enough time because they just become so worn out.
You need things like pride in order to celebrate your successes along with motivating people to continue to fight.
The final argument they make is about backlash.
We think that it's just the case that stereotypes are going to exist anyway and if people already if people are so hateful and so angry about pride parades that they're willing to commit violent acts against these people, we think that these are likely the people that are the most bigoted and likely aren't the ones that are being moved because of pride parades but because of a number of other social factors.
For these reasons we should not cancel pride parades.