We should abandon the presidential system.
When we're talking about abandoning the presidential system, we think that all states that currently have a presidential system, all nations, should instead have a parliamentary system with proportional voting for federal offices, IE, the senate and the house or any sort of house of parliament that may exist.
So, firstly, we think that it's important to recognize that abandoning the presidential system minimizes the abuse that can be done by individuals who are in executive roles.
When you have an individual who is elected by a parliamentary body after, but is simply one of many people that serve in that parliament, they are more easily stripped of their power, and it's less of a intense political act to strip them of their power.
It means that there's less harm done to the party writ large.
And recognize that presidential systems have a historical tendency towards authoritarianism.
These are systems in which people are able to accumulate immense amounts of executive power.
They're able to overrule acts of the legislature without being a member of that legislative body, and they're able to take action with the military without legislative approval.
And if you actually look at the number of states that currently exist, modern states that have a presidential system, most the vast majority are states that we would not recognize to have a free and fair government.
They're not it's not a government that is immensely democratic.
It's a government that often has a strongman leader that is that is forcing their will upon the state.
We think that having the strong executive, while potentially useful in times of war, in the vast majority of instances is not a particularly effective strategy for running a country and leads to a system in which it is more likely that a democratic system devolves into authoritarianism.
And we think that that is the absolute worst harm that could potentially arise: if a free and fair state turns towards authoritarianism.
And this isn't just happening in developing nations.
We can see countries in europe, for example, with erdogan, and we can see in countries like the united states, with the actions of donald trump, that even in developed nations, presidential systems give rise to more authoritarian action.
We also think that abandoning the presidential system forces people to have more of an an incentive to have coalition building and increases the need to compromise, because if you have a system in which you have proportional voting for federal offices, this mean that more than two parties are likely to arise.
And when you have a multiparty rather than a two party system, you have a situation in which majorities are almost never achieved through one party alone.
You need to build coalitions, you need to build cooperation between those coalitions.
We think that that is something that's incredibly important in today's day and age in which countries are more divided than ever along political lines, and tribalism is on the rise.
It also means that you're less reliant on a singular leader for governance.
So in times of struggle or in times in which the executive, for some reason, cannot perform their duties, it's a very easy transition to the next person in charge.
The roles are much more similar in a parliamentary system between a legislator and an executive, and we think it leads to a system in which you are less vulnerable to governmental crises when you don't have one single executive.
It also means that it's easier to remove the ineffective leader when they're not voted on by the country as a whole.
When you have a parliamentary system and the parliament elects the leader, the the prime minister in most cases, it means that you have a system in which you're not turning against the entire will of the nation by removing someone from office.
You're simply revoking the vote that that happened within parliament, which means that ineffective leaders are more easily removed.
For these reasons, we should abandon the presidential system.