We should increase immigration to the united states.
In this debate we're going to present two main arguments as to why we think immigration is a positive for the united states and indeed for the world.
Firstly, economic arguments and secondly, social arguments.
So under economic arguments we have a few main points.
Firstly, we would say that increasing immigration to the united states increases both the output of the united states economically, but also the potential tax base from which the united states can draw resources.
What this means is that with an increased amount of tax revenue, you can provide more social welfare for the united states, for the citizens of the united states, and you can ensure that more benefits are being paid out to people in bulk.
And what's good about increased tax revenue is that even though there are more people that that tax revenue needs to go to serve when you when you bring that tax revenue together you can do large projects that end up being cheaper per capita than they otherwise would be if you were to subsidize those those products or those projects, such as infrastructure projects, roads, bridges, etcetera, schools, if you had less tax revenue or or a smaller base to draw that revenue from.
Secondly, we think you can increase on low skilled labor supply.
This is important because, as it stands in the united states, there are thousands of jobs that the average american citizen simply does not want to do because it requires arduous labor, intensive amounts of hours, and lots of work and hardship that most americans have too much privilege to want to accept.
These incrude this these include agricultural jobs, manufacturing jobs, etcetera.
But these are still valuable jobs for the united states economy and for small businesses all across america and by bringing in more low skilled labor we think you're more likely to get those jobs fulfilled and increase the productivity of american businesses.
You can also increase competition for skilled labor.
So by bringing in people that are of the best and brightest of foreign countries, we think that you create more competition for skilled labor because you bring in more qualified bodies.
We think while this may detract from some people's ability to get jobs as citizens of the united states, we think it also improves US businesses and ensures that they're drawing from the most capable labor pool possible and therefore are more likely to be able to out-compete international competitors.
We also think that finally, an influx of new immigrants to the united states will also bring innovation in terms of what businesses are likely to open up new ideas and fresh ideas to the market that can increase the types of competitive competitive businesses and firms that exist in the united states.
Okay secondly social arguments.
We would say that cultural exchange exchange has a number of benefits.
Firstly, it promotes tolerance.
We think in a world in which most people interact with people that look like them and have similar experience as them and very little experience with those from other nations, we think that people often stereotype those that live outside the united states and in instances such as the islamophobia that exists in the united states, we think that this also this often breeds hostility in the global sphere.
We think that by bringing in more immigrants you're less like you're likely to get contact between people from the united states and other and foreigners that is more likely to show these people these people that have these islamophobic and another prejudiced tendencies that these other people are just like them and it's more likely to bridge the empathy gap that currently exists.
We also think it provides new opportunities for US citizens such as new outlets for entertainment in in new social groups that we think can can be incredibly fulfilling, especially to people that feel out like outsiders in their currently in their current community.
Finally, we would say that given the amount of privilege that people have in the united states, we think that that privilege should be extended to all people around the globe.
We think that just because you're born in the united states doesn't mean that you're deserving of the democratic system and the rights that are afforded to citizens that are born here.
We think that those opportunities should be expanded to as many people as possible and only through immigration to the united states can that be possible and can the united states be an ethical global superpower.
For these reasons we should increase immigration to the united states.