We should introduce carbon taxes.
So in this round we're not gonna -bate about the exact rate at which carbon production is going to be taxed, we're going to say though it will be a a substantial tax per unit of carbon output, per unit of CO two emission.
It will be a very high tax rate.
Okay two big arguments we want to talk about.
The first is global warming and why we think this is an effective measure to curtail global warming and the second is about why this is an effective balance of economic and environmental needs.
So on global warming, we think that global warming is the biggest threat that humanity currently faces to its survival.
It's not war, it's not super bugs, and it's not terrorism.
It's the inevitability of global warming if we continue along the path that we're on.
The outcomes are staggering.
Scientists project that in future years rising sea levels are going to destroy massive economic hubs such as miami, such as new york, such as boston.
Because and this is hugely impactful because first there's a mass migration that's going to need to occur in land and it also means that you destroy the centers of economic activity amongst even the most industrialized states.
Further, we are more likely to get more extreme weather events such as tornadoes and hurricanes and we have seen in recent months and recent years the toll that these things can have especially on those that are already the worst off.
And finally when you have global warning have these environmental changes you've less regularity in seasons which means that it makes agricultural production far more difficult and there's less clean water available for people which we think likely is going to only increase the likelihood of conflict.
We need to act now in order to make that change.
We need to care about our own survival but more importantly, about the survival of future people we are forcing to come into this world that have no responsibility for the world that they are being born into.
We think that carbon taxes are an effective measure of fighting global warming because it puts a price on the future harm that corporations and that people are creating.
It means that in the status quo, people don't need to internalize the harm and corporations don't need to internalize the harm of their emissions.
They can pass it on down the road onto those future persons.
But we reached the end of that we've reached the end of the road that we can kick the can down.
We need to start acting now if we're going to avoid all the harms I already outlined and even more dramatic versions of those harms.
And we think that people don't like spending money on taxes.
We think that there are other sustainable options that are available and that ultimately people are very likely to shift to those.
So let's talk about that.
With a carbon tax you still allow the free market activity which creates progress.
If you're a corporation and you want to pollute your environment and you want to emit, and you want to remain dependent on carbon, then you can do so.
You just need to internalize that harms.
We think that this forces companies to switch it creates a more competitive economy for green companies and for green technology.
In the status quo, green technology has to compete against an unmitigated carbon and fossil fuel lobby, an unmitigated carbon and fossil fuel economy which means that they're competing essentially at a deficit because these companies use fossil fuels don't need to internalize the harm that their fossil fuel causes.
They push that hard and therefore push that cost further down the line, further on to the consumer without having to bear at all.
We think that when you introduce a carbon tax it removes that kicking the can down the road and it means that prices will need to go up to account for this new carbon tax.
This means that corporations are going to be more likely to shift over to green technology because that green tech is already a viable alternative.
It's already somewhat similar in cost and it's already as efficient if not more efficient than fossil fuels are.
Given that this is the case, we think that companies are likely to jump on and jump into the green the green energy and the green tech craze that is already sweeping many areas of the world and that when you introduce the carbon tax it only forces that transition that is likely going to occur anyway to occur far faster than it's projected to in the status quo.
This is the change that we need to make and at the same time it bounces free market entrepreneurship and free market decisions.
For these reasons, we should introduce carbon taxes.