We should not abolish the monarchy.
So, in a debate such as this one, we think there are really two types of debates we're having.
The first is about real authoritarian monarchy, in which a monarch is given actual power of governance, and the second is about symbolic monarchies, such as that such as the one that exists in england and throughout much of europe, in which a monarch exists, a monarch has certain duties, but they don't have any real governing power.
So we're going to say that both of those are absolutely fine, and we're going to explain why each is fine on its own.
So firstly, let's deal with real authoritarian monarchy.
So, we would say that despite lots of liberal intuitions, democracy or rule by the majority of people is not inherently good.
We think that so long as there is a robust system of rights, which is something that can exist within monarchies, parliamentary monarchies have existed for hundreds of years, and right system such as the magna carta have existed alongside monarchs, so we think as long as there is a robust system of rights, and there are checks put in place to ensure that those rights are upheld, we think that there are a number of benefits to a monarchy that democracy cannot match.
Firstly, we think you actually create leaders that are trained and given certain grooming in order to teach them how to govern.
Just because you have expertise in a business field, just because you have expertise in political academia or any sort of these types of things, governing is a beast unto itself.
Having a person literally growing up and being trained to take over the reins, to be the lead governing authority, is something that is incredibly valuable in helping them first, learn the learn the tasks of the job, have a actual decent understanding of what their job as a monarch entails, and then seeing from experience, learning from those that come before them how to go forward and fulfill that job justly.
We also think that this person would have a net security for a long term policy planning.
What this means is that many elected officials are most concerned with ensuring that they can win their nest their next election, but this doesn't give them the type of security to carry out long term policy proposals, such as proposals about long term infrastructure projects, or long term proposals to curb climate change, or education proposals, things that it takes a very long time for the results to bear out and for people to see.
A monarch doesn't have the political pressure that comes with democratically elected officials, to ensure that they do things that are popular to stay in office.
And this comes to our last point which is that you have the freedom to undertake unpopular yet necessary action.
For example, in the united states the retirement age needs to be raised in order to save social security, or else the fund will go bankrupt.
This is something that economists agree on, but people are unwilling to touch, because it would be incredibly unpopular to take this type of action.
It is necessary, and a monarch would be able to take it.
So on to symbolic monarchy.
We think that the costs are generally negligible compared to the national budget.
There are sometime stories running on the billions the millions of dollars spent on the british monarchy and things like this, but recognize that these are governments and state budgets that total in the billions of dollars, and this is rather negligible.
Rather, there are certain benefits.
First, tourist attraction actually creates revenue which oftentimes offsets any sort of cost of the monarchy, and more importantly these things tend to be a source of national pride.
It's something that harkens back to the heritage of that state, that harkens back to the people that those that the ancestors that the modern people have come from, and it's a source of national pride, it gives you someone to have a head of state for ceremonial purposes, and creates a rally around the flag effect, which we think is good for fostering national unity and national cooperation.
We think that given that the cost is generally negligible, there's no reason to abolish this type of monarchy, and as I explained, authoritarian monarchy isn't as bad as people in liberal democracies make it out to be.
For these reasons, we should not abolish the monarchy.