We should subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
When we say that we would subsidize this, what we mean by this is that we think that there should be an immense government investment into stem cell research, so the government should put forward research funding, that's tied to certain possible outcomes of stem cell research, that's tied to investigating the potential of stem cell research, and we think that businesses as well should start to invest in the same type of research.
We think that there is a public and private investment structure that can allow for a subsidy to be created.
You can also create tax cuts for businesses that invest in stem cell research, there are number of ways of doing this.
We think, any and all options are fair.
So, two reasons why we should subsidize embryonic stem cell research: the first is ethical.
We want to say that categorically, embryos are not people.
We think that potentiality is simply a bad standard for determining when people deserve to have rights, and we think it's a bad standard for allowing stem cells to have rights, or embryo stem cells as well.
We think that, if you will allow potentiality to be a metric by which we give rights, we think that would be an immense amount of restrictions placed onto individuals.
For example, anytime that someone wanted to say masturbate, this would be something that is a horribly unethical event, because the sperm that would be lost during masturbation is potential, it is possible that that's that sperm could have became life, and given that this is the case, we think there would have to be prohibitions on a number of very personal things, that individuals want to do with their bodies, and we think that this is unjust.
Furthermore, potentiality cuts out a wide array of individuals that, we think, do deserve rights.
So, we think for example, individuals that are comatose, that don't appear to have any sort of potential for regaining consciousness, we think that it would mean that these people could be abused in any number of ways, even though they may have living wills.
Or things like this.
And we think that it simply undermines the rights of individuals in the status quo.
We also think, that the concerns of those in the present should outweigh and should regulate government action.
So, even if you think that potentiality is important, the potentiality of people that are alive, that could be helped by the health benefits of stem cell research, is also much more real, and is guaranteed.
So we think that because of this, you ought give preference to those types of people, to the people that are already alive.
We think, that there are massive potential benefits of embryonic stem cell research, these are cells that can be used in various forms of therapy, and can be harnessed in a wide variety of ways, that can change based on how they're used, because stem cells are very malleable by their very nature.
They be can used to alleviate a number of different elements, in in a variety of parts of the human body.
This is why stem cells are so valuable, it's because they're malleable, and they're versatile in this way.
We also think that it allows for the study of human development in a specific way, to see how these stem cells are able to change, and to see how we can change the cells in our own bodies, to do theoretical research.
The list of potential treatments are so wide for stem cells, that we think not taking action, not doing stem cell research, dooms many of those for ailments that are in fact very common.
Stem cell research could be used to help in treating heart disease, diabetes, spinal cord injuries, other muscular and tissue injuries, these are all things, that are not only incredibly detrimental to the livelihood of people that have them, but also incredibly common.
We think that government needs to look out for the protections of individuals that exist in the status quo.
Given that stem cell research presents an immense possibility for diseases, that are incredibly common within our society, we think it would be disrespectful, of the rights of those that are currently alive, not to subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
And for this reason, we think that we should subsidize embryonic stem cell research.