We should not privatize ports.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why ports are essentially a public utility, why privatizing ports would be bad for essentially everyone but that person that got to control the port, and why we think that the status quo or system in which they are largely controlled by public actors is beneficial.
The first is that privatization raises import prices.
If you have private control over a port and, yes, you have to spend the money on upkeep, you have to spend the money on making sure that your port is secure, you have to spend various different types of costs in order to in order to utilize the port, in order to have the port, but on aside from those costs, you also have the ability to tax imports at any cost that you will.
And even if you have import tariffs already existing, you can levy a price that says: if you want to land in my port, if you want to park your ship here, you have to pay me a certain fee, which means that on top of existing import tariffs, we think that it's incredibly likely that a privatized system of ports would result in a system in which you are likely going to get people being people forcing different individuals to pay to port their ships.
And this is probably only going to make costs even higher, especially in areas that are of high demand, especially in coastal cities that have an immense amount of a high market that you want to get your goods to.
Which means that for any number of goods that are being imported into that area, we think prices are likely to go up to the detriment of the average person and to the benefit only of the very wealthy.
We think that the status quo solves much better.
The second thing that we would argue is that global trade, as something that passes through ports, is something that is a public good.
All people benefit in a major way from having a globalized system of trade.
Whether it's the low-income worker in a foreign country that is that's producing some sort of cheap good that otherwise would be having a much worse job, that otherwise wouldn't be able to feed their family, these types of people gain immense amount of benefit as do the consumers in a consumer in a consumerized world that get their cheeps at a that get their goods at a relatively cheap cost.
This is a system that is friendly to all.
It's a system that creates a more interconnected world, and we think that having a system of privatized ports does nothing to benefit that.
If anything else, it only makes those benefits more weary, because if you have higher costs of goods, fewer people can access them, which means you don't need as many of those low-cost workers, and it means that goods that are coming in become more exclusive.
This is, again, to the detriment of the average person to all people aside from the person that owns the port.
The final thing we would say is that tax revenue in the status quo goes to the public benefit versus paying an income to the private organization.
We think that terrorists are likely to exist either way, but if you have a privatized system of ports, that means that you probably are going to have to lower those import taxes in order to import tariffs in order to counteract the arguments of the problems that I pointed out in my first two points, which means there's less money coming into the public realm, even though the public is perfectly capable of running ports.
It's perfectly capable of continuing the status quo, and it means that that money is otherwise going to private actors.
We think that the money is clearly more beneficial in public hands, and we think that a system of publicly owned ports is much is much preferable to almost all actors involved than changing.
For these reasons, we should not privatize ports.