We should not prohibit tower blocks.
So we think that one of the main benefits of tower blocks is that they're able to allow more people to enter into cities and to do it in a sustainable fashion.
So that's what we're going to talk about this debate: why it's, first, a good thing generally that people are in cities, why cities are good and they provide lots of resources to the people that are within them, and secondly about the alternative, which we think is urban sprawl, and why that's so problematic.
So first on why cities are so good.
Firstly, for economic means cities bring people together en masse, and this has a substantial economic benefit and substantial benefit to the people that live in the cities, on both the supply end and the labor end.
So firstly if your business, and you have the opportunity to start a business in an area where you need specialized labor or in an area where you might need lots of laborers, you're much more likely to want to settle into a city because you're more likely to, if you if maybe one in a thousand people or one in a ten thousand or a hundred thousand people, specialized in the field that you need in your business, your way more likely to get that on large city, where there are so many people to choose from, than you are in a rural area and this is why the most innovative businesses, the businesses that promote the most job growth and the most growth in productivity, are in urban centers.
Because they attract because they are a hub that attracts many influential, intelligent intelligent people that specialize in a wide variety of things.
And so it's much easier to start businesses in these areas.
These are the hubs of innovation.
Although there's there's also additionally benefits for laborers.
Because there are so many people in these areas, there are lots of service jobs that need to be filled, at any possible skill level.
Whether it's in retail or food production or other types of service industries, because there are so many people in these areas there so many services that can be provided, and of course there are high and jobs as I just explained.
So if you live in a city, the likelihood that you're able to gain some type of employment, some sort of make some sort of living for yourself, is much higher than in rural areas where jobs are continuing to be lost, where manufacturing continues to wind down, especially in developed countries, where other types of mining and low skilled jobs continue to go away, and people migrating to cities is a benefit that allows for more people to get employed.
So that's why it's economically better.
As far as services, we think services are better provided and that quality of life is simply better in cities.
The reason for this is that you can do a lot of good with with more tax money that is coming into the area.
So what I mean by this is that when you can collectively accumulate tax money in such a large amount, which you can do in cities, it's easier to fund types of projects that aren't possible in other areas.
Whether it's public parks or better schools or better services like healthcare services, or better services for the poor, all these things are better done when you aggregate an immense amount of resources, which is the case in cities.
You simply can't do this in rural areas, which means people that are living in cities, these things that tower blocks allow to happen, we think end of having a better quality of life.
And finally culturally.
We think that these areas tend to be cultural hubs, so we think you create more well rounded people in cities.
So if it is good to be in cities, we think the comparative is either tower blocks or urban sprawl.
So why his urban sprawl so much worse?
Well, primarily it's very bad for the environment.
If you spread out an urban area over a large amount of square mileage, it means you have to destroy many habitats, many types of ecosystems in order to expand.
And we think that the alternative is to have tower blocks which are much more environmentally friendly, can be made in a much cleaner way that can provide a better better living in a more environmentally friendly living, for the same amount of people in a smaller area.
We think given, especially, the amount of damage and deterioration that the environment is faced since the industrial revolution, we think that this should be a major priority in considering whether or not we should prefer tower blocks or urban sprawl and expanding the area of cities based on square mileage.
Because tower blocks allow for cities to be made not just more beneficial to more people but also done a more environmentally friendly way we should not prohibit tower blocks.