We should end mining.
In this round we're going to make a few arguments about why we think that mining should be ended, but first a model.
We're going to say that mining should be phased out over a period of say ten years and that we would like this to be some sort of a global policy.
Maybe this is agreed upon via treaties the the mechanisms of this we don't really care too much about so over a ten year period we would lower the rates of mining and after ten years it would be illegal to mine on earth.
For main arguments, the first is about harms to the environment.
Heavy machinery that is required for mining, the amount of technical know-how that is required to do this mining, ultimately pollutes the surrounding area whether it's allowing soil contamination to happen which makes it less fertile makes the the area less fertile and doesn't doesn't just harm like people in the fact that you can't use the area around mine shafts in order to actually grow crops but it also causes ecosystem degradation which harms the surrounding wildlife.
In addition to this, mining can cause earthquakes in some instances especially if it's done improperly.
So we think that mining is ultimately a major factor especially for the areas in which it's done for harming the environment.
Given our given the immense amount of ecosystem degradation that's going on due to human activity, we think that this is unacceptable and we think there are alternatives which we'll get to later.
Secondly mining is a very dangerous job.
First of all, mining is just a harsh condition to work in.
The people that are working in the mines have to experience immense heat, they have to deal with things like inhaling ash and soot which could ultimately lead to long term life problems such as lung cancer and different types of lung diseases and it's also in this is compounded in developing nations whereas maybe in developed countries protection for miner for miners is slightly better but in developing nations there's very little worker protections at all which means people can be subjected to very long hours in these conditions and can lead to and and the lifespan of these people can be dramatically decreased because of their job.
Third, let's talk about how we can recycle resources in the status quo.
We think it's preferable to to recycle existing resources given the harms that mining causes to our environment and to miners.
There are tons of landfills around the globe that are filled with precious metals, that are filled with other types of non-precious metals, all these things that are resources that can be reused if only we took the time to actually go through our landfills and take care of them and to go and put them through a recycling process.
We think that you solve for the harms of mining when you shift to this type of production, when you actually go through landfills and start to recycle the products that are being tossed away by people negligently and it doubly solves another problem which is the fact that landfills are taking away immense amounts of space, take incredibly long times for to degrade and for the the the process of decomposition in these landfills it takes a very long time in some cases hundreds of years for products in landfills to decompose so we think you're doubly solving for problems by ending mining and shifting to recycling instead.
Finally we think that in the next ten years astromining is going to be an amazing replacement for the status quo.
In the near future astromining will be possible.
There are businesses that are investing in in the technology that will not only allow us to get to to get to asteroids but also to mine those astroids when we're they're.
Given the fact that there are literally thousands of asteroids in our solar system, that those asteroids can contain as much gold or as much precious metal as there is on the entire earth, we think that there are nearly infinite resources available to us in the asteroid belt and that if we shift to this type of reduction of mining we will get infinitely more resources at very low cost which is only going to benefit the economy.
For these reasons we should end mining.