We should not increase the use of personalized medicine.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why personalized medicine is problematic.
Personalized medicine is medicine that is dictated largely by treating people based on specific genetics that they have that breaks people down into very individualized and factors and treats them not based on broad understandings of how medical treatments have worked in the past, but rather by using new technology and new studies to try an individualized treatment, even if two people may have the same disease.
So, there's a few problems with this.
First, there's a large lack of infrastructure to do this.
What this means is that there are simply not enough trained professionals in place that can actually take on personalized medicine.
Personalized medicine requires oversight of individuals even when they're not ill.
It requires monitoring their behavior, how they eat, how they live, how they sleep, getting these factors down to have a full data understanding of how they are as a human being, how they behave, and what may cause injuries in the future.
This is something that simply does not exist and increasing the use of personalized medicine would put a further strain on the lack of medical resources that exist now.
There's also a lack of specialists.
So, there aren't enough people that specialize in very particular areas of medical care, that specialize in understanding genetics and how individual aspects of our genome may affect our medical our medical information moving forward.
There's just not enough people in the status quo to actually shift ourselves to personalized medicine.
But on top of the lack of infrastructure and the lack of pure bodies and trained individuals that can actually undertake this this amount of work, there's also ethical dilemmas that are presented by personalized medicine.
Because there is so much information that is generated by one's genetic code, by breaking someone down as a unique individual asset rather than as a part of a community that should be treated similarly, there's a lot of information that people may just not want to know.
If you're going in to get treatment for a particular ailment and your doctor then finds out that you could be at risk for x, y, z diseases moving forward, these are things that put people in an incredible amount of stress.
These are things that people may not want to know, and there's no ethical foundation for how we should treat those situations.
There's also there's also a confusion over who owns that data.
If I give my genetic code to my doctor in order for him to better analyze and treat me, who owns that genetic code at that point?
How can that genetic code be used, and how is that data going to be used moving forward?
Are private enterprises going to be able to profit off of that data?
These are things that are happening right now that simply the ethical questions that they present have not been answered in a suitable manner.
There's too much divisiveness over these issues to move forward with personalized medicine and using it in bulk.
It's also, finally, incredibly costly to have personalized medicine, which means that if we move forward as a medical field, if the medical field moves forward and shifts towards personalized medicine, that means costs are going to go up.
That means that people are going to be excluded based on those costs, not just because they can't pay like insurance co-pays but because the insurance will just refuse to cover these things altogether.
And that means that more and more people who are already lacking medical care, who are already lacking funds to properly support themselves to maintain their health, these people get marginalized more and more, which is simply unacceptable.
For these reasons, we should not increase the use of personalized medicine.