We should not adopt teacher tenure reform.
So, we think it's important to recognize that certainly while tenure makes it more difficult to fire teachers, it makes it more difficult to bring in new teachers, it gives a lot of benefits to seniority, we think that tenure, ultimately, has the biggest impact in attracting qualified teachers.
Because recognize that, in the status quo, teachers are dramatically underpaid.
Teachers make the same salary that most people can make in an entry level position in your average corporation.
Teachers, while they get some benefits, have increasingly seen those benefits be slashed, have had to take up multiple jobs, there've been a variety of teacher strikes across the united states.
It is obvious that these teachers are underpaid and underappreciated.
We think that tenure provides some sort of incentive for qualified collegians who are in school to actually consider going into teaching.
Because if, and I agree with the government side, if the most important thing in this round is the children's education, I think what matters, then, is saying that you're able to recruit qualified people that are capable of teaching these children as opposed to just getting people that have the bare minimum requirements.
And when you look at it in the sense that you need to pay a similar amount for a teaching degree that you do for any other degree in school, and your business degree is going to make you a lot more money than a teaching degree, and so what are the reasons that you would go into teaching?
Because you have long-term job security.
Because you have certain benefits protected.
Because of things like tenure.
And we think that if you make tenure less extreme, if you make tenure less beneficial to those that become teachers, then, ultimately, you just see an even greater decrease in the quality of candidates going to be teachers.
The first argument that the government side makes directly is that complacency among teachers is incredibly common, and people just don't exert themselves to the full degree once they get older, as you're more senior in the classroom, once you get tenure and you don't need to prove yourself, you just don't go above and beyond as often as you otherwise would.
But we think that this is true of most professions but if you actually look at teachers, most of them are passionate about trying to improve their kids' lives, and they want to help kids.
Otherwise, they would go find a better-paying job.
Like I said, being an average teacher, even with tenure, still doesn't make a lot more money than a job at an average corporation, where you have opportunities for advancement, and better benefits, and higher pay.
So most of the people that are teachers aren't just there to collect a paycheck but actually want to do their job and want to do it well.
The second argument the government side makes is that tenure makes it hard to remove incompetent teachers.
And, so, while this is true to an extent, it's important to recognize that if a teacher is actively bad in the sense that they are: one, not doing their job in teaching the material at all ; two, are actively harmful to their students in some tangible way or do something to their students that actually makes their makes their classroom an unsafe space, there are still ways to get rid of a teacher with tenure, even if it does come with all of the headaches that the government side talks about.
But we think that you have to weigh this against getting even fewer qualified teachers in the first place, because for every one teacher that abuses tenure by slacking off in the classroom, there's nine others that work incredibly hard and would only be in that job if would only be in that job because tenure gave them security.
Finally, they talk about seniority and how seniority outweighs quality and hard times when you're considering layoffs.
This is true, but it also means that those teachers that have been dedicated the longest, that have been spending most of their lives making very little money to do a job that has very little reward are also the ones that are protected.
And these are also the people, because of their age, who are least able to move to new career sectors or new get or get new job training, which means that, yes, we actually think it is better that people with seniority in the schools are protected because younger people can go find jobs in other areas, they can move to a different area that's having less economic hardship, or they can move to an entirely different sector much easier than older person could.
For these reasons, we should not adopt teacher tenure reform.