We should not increase immigration to the united states.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we do not need further immigration, legal or illegal, to the united states.
The first is just a principled point that we believe there's no right to entry and there's no right to immigration to any given state.
Borders aren't just some arbitrary thing that states decided to set up, but rather they're defining lines of where the social contract of the state must be applied and beyond which the state is able to act in a in a global world in which they interact at the state level, but they don't have obligations to the people themselves.
And the reason that this is important is because there's a finite amount of resources and a finite amount of care that the state has to give.
The state simply can't spend infinite money and it can't care for every single person.
And in order to have an idea of who they're going to prioritize, borders are necessary in order to determine who is going to be given first pick and who is going to given the highest priority by the state.
And this is the way that states function.
This is the agreement that people have with states when they give up their rights: that they will be given preference, that they will be given protection, even if it comes at the cost of other people.
Just because someone has a desire to be in the united states doesn't mean they just get to opt in to that contract.
While, yes, people that were born in the united states were given this opportunity to simply be a citizen, these people didn't have anywhere else to go.
They didn't have any sort of other cultural ties.
They had familial ties in the united states.
But when new people are entering the united states, they don't have these sorts of ties to enter with and because of that, we don't think it's important to give them prioritization.
That leads us to our second point: that there's simply a lack of resources for increased immigration.
The united states already takes in thousands and thousands of immigrants every year.
And recognize that many of the people that are immigrating to the united states aren't doing so with a lot of money.
They're not doing so with a lot of resources.
Most of the time when someone is immigrating to another country, they're doing so because they're seeking a better life.
They're seeking some sort of improvement, otherwise they would likely stay in their homes.
Of course, there are exceptions to these rules, but we think in most cases, this is what these people are coming for.
And because of that, these people are especially high resource usage.
When you have more immigrants coming into the united states, you need more and more resources to distribute amongst them, things like welfare, things like housing, and we don't think that it's fair to the citizens of the united states that are currently paying taxes that so many of their resources go to these people that haven't paid into the tax pool, that haven't given up their rights to the state, that haven't done things over the course of their lifetime to give to the community and to give to the state, like these other citizens have.
And thirdly, this leads to our final point, we think you need to prioritize your own citizens.
There's a significant lack of development going on economically and socially in the united states right now.
The GDP of the united states is the largest in the world by a wide mile, but this the resources that are being gained, the money that's being gained, is not being distributed anything close to evenly.
There're schools in the united states that are failing.
There's crumbling infrastructure all across the country.
There are areas that don't have significant protection from natural disasters that keep getting bartered year after year, and we think that we need to pour more and more resources into these areas.
But as I said earlier, there's a fungible amount of resources that the united states can give.
And when it comes to immigration, we think that it is more important to prefer to prefer the citizens that are already there and to give money and resources to the things that will help existing citizens than it is to increase immigration and necessarily give many of those resources to new citizens.
For these reasons, we should not increase immigration to the united states.