We should fight the BDS movement.
The BDS movement is a boycott and divestment movement against israel for their policies against palestine, for their treatment of palestine.
We think that the BDS movement is wholly unjust, and we're going to give two main reasons why.
The first is that the BDS movement harms innocent people.
Divestment has many of the similar harms of sanctions, but in a way that provides a broader and more direct base of harms.
So what do we mean by this?
Divestment takes money from israeli businesses in hopes to withdraw international aid in funding that allows for the government to fulfill necessary functions.
When businesses lose markets, they lose funding and they lose profits.
They're forced to either fire people that work for them or lower their salaries.
This is just basic economics in the premise of the BDS movement.
And if the BDS movement is successful, they would hope that this action would occur en masse, that israeli businesses would lose would lose funding, that they'd lose that they'd lose markets to sell their goods to, all these things, and this would happen en masse.
This means that their ultimate end goal is that that thousands of israelis, potentially millions of israelis, lose their jobs, lose their livelihood, or get a cut to their salaries so they can't afford to feed themselves and their families.
But these people are largely innocent.
They don't have they have nothing, if very little, to do with the policies that go on against palestine.
And what we've seen, time and again with sanctions, is that when people are are harmed in this way, they don't blame their government for the harm.
They blame the outsiders that are taking away their profits, that are taking away their money, and we think it's just simply unjust to push these harms on the israeli people.
They're not responsible for the harm done, and even if you agree with the BDS position on palestine, it's unjust to target the people as a tool for the change, because they are innocent.
They've done nothing to earn that harm.
But secondly, we just think israel is justified in its treatment of palestine.
The BDS movement's goals are not justified more broadly because the israeli policy towards palestine is just.
Palestinian terrorist attacks have heightened tensions.
They've forced tighter security measures, and these are all things that have been brought upon by past actions against israelis: bus bombs, stabbings, things like this that have made israel less than less than safe, and these are things that we think warrant some sort of defense and some sort of response from israel.
Israel should have the right to exist.
We think that historical reparations, not just for the holocaust but for centuries of persecution, demand that the israeli people have a homeland.
The state currently exists and removing the state would only uproot millions of lives, families, and communities, and only create recreate the harm that palestinians feel from when the land was taken from them in the nineteen fifties.
And palestinians want to remove israel entirely.
They're not willing to come to the negotiating table and fairly try and divvy up parcels of land so that each group can live in peace.
If the movement itself is unjust and causes harms to innocent people, we think we must fight it.
On top of that, the movement's goals are misaligned.
It relies on a demonization of israel that is unjustified, because we believe that israel is taking actions that are fair and are necessary to uphold its sovereignty and to protect its people.
Maybe the obviously the situation between israel and palestine is not ideal but we think the the BDS movement does not improve that in any measurable way.
For these reasons, we should fight the BDS movement.