We should not prohibit international adoption.
So, we have a couple of broad arguments, that we want to put forward, to explain why children,or why parents should be allowed to adopt from any region of the world, no matter their nationality.
So, the first point is that it's important to recognize the context of the situation, in that there is an abundance of orphan children in the world.
There are an abundance of children, that are trying to be put in a situation, where they can have parents, where they can have a stable upbringing, where they can be raised in a loving and nurturing environment.
It's not like there's some sort of shortage of orphans, unfortunately, there's a plethora of them available, so we don't think that you're cutting off access to domestic parents.
So, if the problem is that the perception is that it's wealthy western countries are able to go into less wealthy non western countries, and are able to take children out, and kind of culturally appropriate them, and not leave them to be raised by people within their own culture, this simply isn't the case there.
It's not like there's a trade off between a child being adopted by an international parent, and some parents in the domestic area not being able to adopt it.
It's simply not the case, there are too many orphans in the world for that to be the case, and there's not enough of a demand for orphaned children, so we think what's the case is that, if you prohibit international adoption, you're necessarily going to be in a situation, which in which there are too many children in a nation to be adopted by the amount of parents, or perspective adoptive parents in that nation.
And it's crucial to recognize, that these children all, no matter where they were born, have the same claim to be raised by a loving and caring family.
These are all children that have the same innate value, that deserve to have the same opportunities given to them, no matter where they have been born, that have no choice about their nationality, that had no choice about them being orphaned, these are children that are the most vulnerable in the world, and we think that cutting off the potential stream of parents, cutting off the ability for these children to be adopted, in such a restrictive way, is only going to harm their chances to be raised and to be given the opportunities that are necessary for them to survive, that are necessary for them to be successful in the future.
And yes, people talk about a cultural savior complex of western people that they're trying to be white saviors, but recognize, that even if it is true that people are motivated in some part by their subconscious bias to be a white savior, at the end of the day, when they do adopt a child, when they're that child into a home, they are ultimately bringing that child into a situation, in which they are given vastly more benefits than they otherwise could have been given in their home country, in which they are given loving parents, and these are often parents that are willing to try and introduce them to their culture, so that they can still have some sort of semblance of connection to their home countries, these aren't malicious individuals that are that are looking to take a child from a country, and say: now my job is done, and don't want to raise them.
We simply think that, even if there are some bad subconscious motivators, this shouldn't be a reason to prohibit international adoption.
The final thing that we want to say is that we are likely to end up in a situation, in which there is an immense black market that rises up, because there are a number of people that want to adopt internationally, that are that have their minds set on adopting from, say, where their cultures is from, where from an area in which they view the children at least privileged, and what this means is that, when you prohibit international adoption, you're likely to have a black market that increases the harms of international adoption in the status quo.
We think you're more likely to get the abuse of orphan children in developing nations, we think you're more likely to have children be kidnapped into these types of things, to increase the supply.
When you don't have a black market, you can keep things above board, you can ensure that parents are not being abusive, you can ensure they go through a long period of time, in which they truly plan on caring for the child they adopt, and you're less likely to get abuses underground, below the sight of of authorities, that may be able to step in and stop an orphan child from being abused.
We don't think that there's a problem with with western parents coming and adopting children from developing states.
We think that they're giving them valuable opportunities, that cannot be undersold.
For those reasons, we should not prohibit international adoption.