We should further exploit aquaculture.
So, aquaculture is the farming of fish, mollusks, shellfish, and different types of algae in controlled waters.
These are often there's two major types of aquaculture, one is inland, that's often takes place in large lakes, and another is very close to offshore.
We think that both of them should be further exploited, they both have immense benefits, and we're going to talk about those in two main arguments.
The first is that despite the fact that at times aquaculture can cause damage, when compared to things like commercial fishing, aquaculture is much more commercially ecologically responsible than the alternatives.
The first is that when you're fishing in a controlled environment, you can maintain the water quality of that environment.
You can run rigorous and normalized tests to ensure that pollution levels in the water is not is below a certain threshold to make sure that there's no sort of contaminants in the water, and this ensures both the quality and ecologic output of the area itself.
It ensures that for the the outlined ecology that there's no damage being put into those areas, but it also means that you ensure a higher quality of the product that you're getting.
If you know that the water is clean, if you know that the environment is clean around the fish, the shellfish, the mollusks, if you know that what you're getting, your yield from this area, is coming from a clean resource, then you can be reasonably certain that the quality of what your yield is is higher than you would otherwise get in a commercial fishing market.
And let's be let's be realistic.
In in the general environment, there's an immense amount of pollutants that are being put out in in our world every single day.
There's no way to guarantee, through commercial fishing, that the quality of your product is particularly high.
So in both an ecological sense and in a very human sense, we think that aquaculture is preferable when it comes to yield.
It also leads to controlled levels of fishing to prevent depopulation.
What we've seen from commercial fishing is that what often occurs is that you have overfishing happen.
And when overfishing occurs, and overfishing not only occurs but it's incredibly hard to legislate, because if you're out there in some sort of marine body and you're fishing, it's hard to track the amount yield you have, it's hard to find you altogether if you're in an incredibly large body, it's just a hard thing to actually police.
And so what you get is overfishing that occurs at a higher level than is likely to be able to stop, and that means that you impact entire ecologies when you're wiping out the population that is used for larger predators to feed themselves, and is and it's important for smaller predators for smaller fish, smaller animals, to ensure that their populations don't grow too large, to make sure you don't get an infestation of different types of animals.
When you mess with the ecological systems through overfishing, it has a robust and large-scale output and harms that can accrue from it.
And we think that aquaculture leads to more controlled levels of fishing because you know exactly how many fish are in the area, you know what your yield is going to be, you can plan to ensure that your yield is equal to the amount of new fish that are going into the environment.
It also makes sure that you can have algae as a potential fuel source, and this is something that has become incredibly popular in recent years, that the idea of algae being used for fuel.
If you are going to try and go along that route, you can you can do better testing in a more controlled environment over what types of algae lead to better fuel, what different growing environments lead to better algae, these types of things.
It's much easier in a controlled aquaculture environment than elsewhere.
For these reasons, we should further exploit aquaculture.