We should limit executive compensation.
So in order to start the round we want to put out a model for what we think meets the boundaries of limiting executive compensation.
So we would say that we're going to set a cap on the difference between what an executive can make and what the median employee in a company makes.
So whatever the median income is in a company, we would say that executives would be capped at making something like fifty times more than that employee.
We're not going to set a hard cap, but we think that that's the mechanism that we would use for fulfilling this motion.
Alright so we're going to talk broadly about inequality, what it does now, how it exists, and why it's bad for society.
So in the status quo, the world has a massive level of income disparity and inequality and executives in many instances are making a hundred times more than the average employee or even exceeding that amount of discrepancy.
We would say that this massive discrepancy between what the average employee makes and what an executive makes is unjust for several reasons.
Firstly, when you're actually looking about the amount of labor that's being put in between the average employee and an executive, you're probably looking at people that are working roughly similar hours, dedicating a similar amount of their lives to the corporation, and we would say that the labor of an executive is simply not worth so much more.
We recognize that that labor is specialized and they have skills that the average employee probably does not have that makes their labor more valuable but we think to say that it's so dramatically more valuable that for each hour every dollar an average employee makes the labor of an executive is worth a hundred dollars or something in that range we think that that's simply ludicrous.
We think that the amount of labor you can possibly put out as an individual just cannot be that exorbitantly higher than what the average person is doing.
Secondly, a lack of mobility of social mobility means just throughout society generally means that the executive likely had structural advantages that the average worker didn't and they didn't earn that extra pay.
So because they were put in the position and this is just statistically true that if you are born in a well off position you're much more likely to be well off in the future because of that starting position and the difference in starting position between the executive and the average worker.
We would say that that more than labor is the cause of this massive discrepancy in payment and we think that that is certainly an unjust basis for that discrepancy.
We'd also say that workers' wages are deflated because of a lack of market leverage, there are simply more people that have the skills that an average worker can do than there are executives and therefore they lack leverage when negotiating income.
So why is inequality so bad in these instances?
Well, firstly we would say that executives are often the people that harm the economy and we're talking about things like the financial crisis in two thousand eight.
It's not that there were average employees that were doing things on their own, rogue employees that took down the market but rather corporate ideas and corporate plans that were put in place by those employees that executives had total total control over and pushed and that these are the people that should be punished when there are harms to the economy.
But what are the other harms of inequality?
First low worker wages means that you just have less happy, less efficient workers which means that the actual productivity of your market is less than otherwise could be.
Inequality also means that many in the market simply cannot afford the goods that the market is producing and an excess of goods means that there's labor that is being used for no purpose, for no productivity in the market.
There's also when you have a massive underclass it means that more and more people are left behind and disenfranchised by the system.
We think the beauty of the model was this it provides a path to increased compensation for the average worker.
If an executive wants to pay themselves more they can do this they just need to increase the salary of the median worker in a company and this would allow you to make that raise so we think that capping the level of inequality capping the level of executive compensation is what our model does and for these reasons we believe we should limit executive compensation.