We should not ban full body scanners.
So in this round we think there's really one argument that matters and that's the argument about security.
So that we're going to talk about in this in this debate, why, when you do not have full body scanners in places like airports, in places like concert venues, that you're likely to have a less secure and a less safe society and that that is ultimately the most important issue issue in this debate.
So when it comes to the security that full body scanners provide, the alternative options are likely to be just as invasive.
And let's be clear here, people do not dislike full body scanners because they don't think they're secure, they don't like full body scanners because they think they're invasive, that they show their private bodies out to the world for random individuals to see.
Well, let's look at the alternatives.
Scanners themselves just aren't that invasive.
You often have the person viewing the scans in an entirely different room so any of the scans can't be seen by the public.
They often do not even show the body image but rather highly potential danger areas on a dummy body that was brought up by the scan.
Let's look at some alternatives though: you pat downs which have all the problems of being invasive but are now being done in a very physical, personal way.
If someone is going to be ogling your full body scan and you fear that an NSA agent or some security person is going to be doing that in an inappropriate way, we think it's vastly more likely that something inappropriate is done during a pat down.
There's also an alternative of metal detectors.
But these are not nearly as secure.
They can't catch non-metal bombs and other weapons that have been fashioned and let's be clear, these types of weapons are coming up more and more in abundance because metal detectors are just more popular than full body scanners and people are more prepared to deal with those things.
Full body scanners are comparatively effective at finding risks compared to the alternatives.
Full body scanners are more effective at finding weapons or other dangerous items in places like someone's orifice, in places that are very difficult for full body or for other types of detection methods to find.
Things that you can't just feel when you're doing a pat down.
Or things that aren't metal that can't be caught up in a metal detector.
These are things that aside from the fact that full body scanners can catch all of the things that that these other alternative options can, they can find even more security threats than just those.
We think that safety should be the number one concern when talking about these these issues.
Full body scanners what are typically employed in high volume areas.
These are things like concert venues, these are things like airports.
These are high propensity targets for terrorist attacks and other acts of violence because of the high volume of people that are there.
We think that safety needs to override individual comfort in these situations especially when these scanners show little of one's actual body.
When there's actually very little invasion of privacy compared to other alternative methods of security being done here.
We think that even if even if they do violate people's privacy, even it if they are invasive, the momentary uncomfort that comes with a full body scan is worth a higher guarantee of safety.
We think it's the government's obligation, first and foremost, to ensure the security and the safety of its people.
If you value the fact that someone is uncomfortable they cannot have that feeling of uncomfortability if they are not first safe, if they're not first secure, if they're not first able to have those feelings in the first place because there's a security risk that got by because we chose to abandon a technology that works, that is not invasive, and that is comparatively more effective at insuring high security standards in places where attacks are most likely to happen.
For these reasons we should not ben full body scanners.