We should not privatize national parks.
We think that national parks are an important public resource, a way of preserving parts of our country and parts of our society, and keeping them pristine for future generations.
National parks have areas of pristine natural beauty that we think allow people to feel more connected to the earth and allow them to experience something truly unique, something that they can't get anywhere else, and we think that this is the heritage of our species: that there are still places like national parks that we can go to to experience the world in all its wonder.
And because of that, we do not think that privatizing national parks would serve and further that purpose.
So, a few arguments we want to make.
First, when we're talking about privatizing national parks, there's degrees to which you can do this, but we think that any degree to which you're doing this, it harms the national park.
So, say, you do this to a small degree where there are still immense amounts of protections about selling the land or how you can use the land, but we still think that in order to turn a profit, national parks are not incredibly profitable unless they're some of the more major national parks, so we think in order to turn a profit, there's a few things that these private ownerships would need to do.
First, they'd need to get more people in the park and whether that's creating attractions that may harm the land, whether that's whether that's trying to advertise more to try and get people in the park, and oversetting quotas and allowing more people into the park than is safe for the natural environment, or whether it's doing things like spending less on upkeep so that you can make your profit margin without having more people come into the parks.
This either of these scenarios causes harm and degradation to the environment that is protected in these national parks, and we think it is preferable to have a government system run this, where maybe the government is losing money in like a net gain sense, like maybe this isn't a profit for the government, but we still think it is something that is a public duty to protect, something that should be saved from private demolition.
And that's the other problem that comes with private ownership of national parks is: for many of them which they are not profitable, if there aren't strong protections in pace, we think most of the time this land would end up being parceled often sold.
We think that it would end up being developed in a number of ways and because of that, we think that privatizing national parks is, in essence, something that will never ensure that you can keep the pristine nature of those parks as they currently exist.
And we think that public ownership guarantees that protection, because there's no incentive to sell off those parts as the state.
Yes, you can turn a bit of a profit but with the tax revenue and the budgets that the united states government is working off of, selling a bit of land in these national parks, especially the more especially some of the smaller ones that are not turning a profit, we think that this is probably something that the united states have very little incentive to do and something that there's no political will to do, and you're more likely to experience political backlash for taking these actions.
So because of that, we think that private ownership of national parks profits off of something that has something that is truly our public heritage, something that we don't think needs to be put into private ownership, but something that should be preserved to the best degree that it can, and something that should be preserved without having to worry about that profit incentive, which private ownership will never do.
For these reasons, we should not privatize the national parks.