We should not end mandatory retirement.
In this round we're going to argue that what we need, the reason that mandatory retirement is so important is because in a society without mandatory retirement it's much more difficult to create a recycling of the workforce that allows those that really need to be working, people like recent college graduates, people that are younger and don't have money saved up, that it allows them to get into the workforce and that it creates increased political will for things like social security so that people can enjoy their retirement.
So three arguments that the government side makes.
The first is that this is discriminatory against the elderly and that age is an arbitrary line.
But we think that it's important that you create opportunity for the youth and if you don't have mandatory retirement it entrenches the elderly in their current work forces because of things like political clout within the office space, because of seniority, these are the types of things that make it not only difficult to get a job in a workplace but also difficult to advance in the ranks to the point where you're making a sufficient amount of money.
And the fact that age is arbitrary, we don't actually think that age age is that arbitrary.
For example, by age sixty five, which is the example they give, you probably had sufficient amount of time to save money so that you can support yourself in a way that young people have not been able to do.
If you're sixty five years old and I'm twenty five years old and you've been in the workplace forty years longer than me that's forty years worth of nickel and diming that you could have done to put away a nice nest egg for yourself whereas I'm probably still paying off my student loans.
In fact, I am still paying off my student loans.
So we don't think that it's arbitrary to give preference in the workplace to younger people who are more dependent on the resources that a work place can provide than the elderly.
Secondly they say this harms the work force.
And the first point under this is that because people aren't being asked to retire in the status quo without the system, it means they're doing a good job.
But there are other reasons why companies may not fire someone.
I already mentioned that there might be a lot of political clout in the workforce supporting that person, it's also the fact that you don't have to train a new person to come in.
It's a lack of training costs which can be fairly costly for the employer and there's a reason why many companies will allow people to have second third or fourth chances after they've shown that they're not competent at their job.
Because it just costs so much money to train a new employee.
There's also a fear of lawsuits based on things like age discrimination.
And so we think just because there's someone in the job it doesn't mean that they're doing a good job.
But even if it is true that all of these people are doing a good job we think that there are comparative gains that come from having younger peoples.
For example having new ideas in the work force, bringing in different cultures into the workforce and different ideas of how these of how these jobs should function.
And we think that you're still going to have tons of people in the office, even with mandatory retirement, that bring things like leadership, which the government is so strong about, but it's important that you get younger people bringing in new ideas for a new generation.
We think that that's how business stays revitalized.
That's how business continues to push the boundaries.
It's not by allowing the same people that have been in the room for decades to keep dictating where the company is going but rather to recycle that leadership, to recycle the body of employees so you got new blood in there and you have new ideas coming in from the outside.
The final thing that they say that government says is there's no fair standard and that our side needs to explain a fair and clear standard because different jobs have different physical requirements, and so sixty five is an age of retirement may be far too old for a mason but way too young for professor.
Look, we think that this is a silly burden.
Many laws create limits that are arbitrary in one way or another, but we think the point of this, the consequence of these laws is that a single high age that you can provide give us both ability to recycle the workforce and gives ability for people to save their money throughout their career so that they can prepare for retirement.
We think that this is a good balance that does over all good creates positive utility for society, and for these reasons we should not and mandatory retirement.