The blockade of the gaza strip should not be ended.
For many years the world has painted a one-sided view of the blockade of the gaza strip and the incidents in gaza a largely anti-israeli view one that paints it as an aggressor going against a defenseless defenseless city in gaza.
But we don't think that that view is fully explored and really correct in many ways and for those reasons we think that the blockade of the gaza strip is both justified and should not be ended.
The first argument that the government makes is that the gaza strip blockade is essentially a massive humanitarian crisis, that the blockade on the gaza strip is so complete that people struggle to get basic necessities, that they depend on smugglers for these basic necessities and that there's really no way for people to even begin to feed themselves in many instances.
This is massively exaggerated.
While it's certainly true that the that the quality of life in gaza has not been improved by the blockade on the gaza strip, there is still ample supplies that are provided both from outside from outside areas and also from israel itself.
We think that the blockade namely exists to ensure that outside countries aren't bringing in things like weapons, aren't bringing in things that can increase the terrorist activity coming out of gaza.
And like we said we think that this idea of gaza being essentially defenseless is a one-sided description.
We think that as an independent nation israel has the right to control its borders which includes the borders along its coast.
So we think that as far as legitimacy, israel is acting in a legitimate way but additionally, this isn't just an arbitrary action of a blockade but it's a response to a legitimate threat of decades of violence coming out of gaza against israeli citizens targeted at overthrowing the israeli government and that when these types of attacks happen continually especially from a group like hamas, we think that israel is entirely justified in taking these actions to defend itself.
Whether or not they are harming the people of gaza is is is inconsequential given the obligations that the state has to protect its own citizens.
So we think that in that context the government may be harming citizens of gaza but it is justified in doing so.
The second argument that the government makes is that this makes terrorism worse coming out of gaza, that since the blockade hamas is still in power, it's still entrenched and he argues that we are going to breed more terror in the future because of a lack of opportunity.
But people recognize that the lack of opportunity that exists because of the blockade is caused by the leadership of hamas in the status quo which we think means that the blockade is actually fairly straightforward.
It would likely end and opportunity in the area would likely increase if hamas is removed.
Now does this mean that people are being forced into removing a government that they may have chosen legitimately?
Certainly.
But given that this government exists within the borders of israel, we think that israel is entirely justified in taking drastic actions to ensure that a terrorist organization does not have a seat of government within their own borders and we think that even if it does breed more resentment and more anger towards israel, we think that because of the blockade there are fewer abilities to get the tools of terror that allow damage to actually be done to israeli citizens.
So even if resentment is increased, if the actual number of lives lost is lessened, which we think has been the trend over time in israel in the past decade, then we think that israel is being successful in its goal of the blockade which is ultimately to protect its citizens.
For these reasons, the blockade of the gaza strip should not be ended.