We should not abolish electronic voting.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we should keep electronic voting.
The first is about its efficiency, the second is about the ease of use and standardization of electronic voting and, finally, the potential of electronic voting that it holds in the future.
So, firstly, let's talk about its efficiency.
It is self-evident that electronic voting is a more efficient system for and a more accurate system for tallying for tallying votes.
In this before electronic voting, you had systems in which people had to count by hand or with machines paper ballots that people would use that could often be done improperly.
Look at the bush and gore election in which you have hanging chads in the ballots in florida that made it so that it was difficult to determine what actual vote was cast.
Electronic voting takes all of those issues out.
They give you a simple computerized system in which to cast your vote, and they create a system in which it is very easy to tally those votes, the computer can automatically tally all of the votes for a a voting for a voting booth or a a voting area in less than a minute.
And you get accurate results.
You as an as a person who is participating in the election knows the results of that election the day that it occurs, and it allows people to process that.
It allows people to keep it at the top of their mind, to engage with that outcome, and to be able to move forward from there.
Because we see that during transfers of power, having clarity over election results is immensely beneficial because it leads to stability of the government writ large.
Secondarily, we think that electronic voting leads to easier easier use for people.
When you had paper ballots and when you had non-electronic voting, voting systems often varied between states.
But when you have electronic voting, it's difficult to have much variance in it.
Maybe the ballot looks slightly different but the process is going to be the same.
You're going to go into a voting booth, you're going to select an electronic ballot, and you're going to fill it out, and you're going to simply click buttons and submit.
You don't need to worry about punching holes in something, you don't need to worry about knowing the procedure of how to vote to begin with.
It's a much more easier way of voting.
And this means that, say, if you're moving from one county to another or one state to another, you have an easier transition and it's easier for you to vote.
It means that people people can behave quicker in the voting booth, which means that you've shorter lines and it attracts more people to come vote.
All of this eases the process of democracy and removes barriers for people to access that system which we think is only a good thing.
Finally, we think there's a lot of potential for electronic voting in the future that doesn't exist now.
For example, we think that online voting can be made a lot easier and is something that people could embrace moving forward.
And people already do things like mail in ballots all the time.
So we think the idea of having to go to a voting booth is going to eventually become archaic and that, in the future, you can allow people to vote at their , you know, at their leisure.
You could have people sent a a ballot a month before the election is due, and you could give them a whole month to fill out an electronic ballot, to weigh their decision, and cast their vote.
We think that this system could lead to higher participation because you can take you can cast your vote at any time.
It's much easier for people to be available for five minutes over the course of a month than it is for an hour waiting in line over the course of a single day.
It means that people are going to be able to engage with the voting process a lot easier, and it's going to be a lot more sleek.
We think that there's immense potential that comes in online balloting and, in addition to that, it helps us immensely in the status quo with both efficiency and ease of use.
For these reasons, we should not abolish electronic voting.