We should abandon feminism.
Now we want to be very clear in our model.
We're not saying that we should abandon the ideals of equality between men and women, but we're saying that the current organized approach for spreading that idea, the modern feminist movement, is not working and it's something that we should abandon for a different system to try and push those types of ideals of gender equality.
So that's what we're gonna talk about.
First the counterproductive image that feminism has, why it's intractable and why it's always going to under perform, and second why even in its modern form if it was successful it's not inclusive and spreads ideals that are harmful to many women.
So first on its image.
People view feminism as antimen, they view it as something that's politicized, something that is highly political and liberal and to a vast agree and has had a bad job of creating done a bad job of creating a brand that pulls people in.
One of the reasons this is that it was historically radical at the time that first wave feminism rose up it broke norms about women participation in government it broke norms about where women were supposed to be what roles in life they were supposed to serve how vocal they were supposed to be all these types of things that were incredibly radical in the past and feminism has been a radical movement and has always push the boundaries of what people believe women should be able to do.
They're also fringe sections of the movement that really are antimen but because it's been highly politicized these groups are often blown up on TV by places like fox news in order to paint feminism in a bad light and in part because of that there's a feedback cycle cycle that makes it even more hyper politicized.
It means that there's no chance to expand the minds under the to expand minds of people that don't already agree with you under the banner of feminism and the thing with social movements is you need to reach out to people that don't agree with you.
Social movements can't have any sort of growth, they can't have any sort of change, they can't have a foundation if they're not able to reach out and create that base and feminism clearly does not have a large enough base in the status quo to make all of the changes that it would like to see.
This is important because movements need broad support to succeed feminism support is capped by both demographics and political lines.
We would rather have another movement rise up and many people like emma watson the he for she movement etcetera exist as alternatives.
These would likely lead to more actual change but in order for them to do this they need to completely disassociate themselves with the feminist movement in order to be removed of that history removed of that politicization and allow people to simply see what the feminism movement is at its core that women and men should be treated equally.
But even if you don't buy any of that that it's counter productive we think that what feminism puts forward as feminism as good for women is not really good for woemn.
Even if it's not counterproductive mainstream feminism is bad for two large groups: first mainstream femenism is largely white it's just not inclusive intersectionality if you look at leaders the feminist movement historically they've been white if you look at leaders of the feminist movement today they are very white and it doesn't highlight the plight of minority women who make up fifty percent of the population and these women experience unique harms you can't just advocate for white women and expect that all the harms of the black or hispanic or asian women in modern society are going to be fixed.
It's simply not a big enough tent, it's become a movement for women who are best off the white working class and upper class liberals who were able to be advocated for in the movement but these are not the people that need the aid the most and we are rather have another movement that voices intersectional ideals.
Finally, mainstream feminism is incredibly it almost entirely excludes trans people from the movement and especially from leadership roles and it creates an increased stigma against these groups.
It creates divisions against queer against queer people and trans people in a way that simply shouldn't be tolerated again by social movement that needs to create as big a tent as possible.
For these reasons, we should abandon feminism.