Homeschooling should be banned.
So, we think that the model is pretty straightforward for this round.
We would say that you just shouldn't let any homeschooling occur for any grades between k through twelve.
If that were to occur, obviously there would be fines, punishments, jail time, something that is proportional and set by the political body, proportional to violation of this law.
So, two main arguments.
The first is about socialization and the second's about quality of education.
On socialization: we think that young age is one the most important time for an individual to learn social cues and norms and to start to feel out the process of interacting with people you both do and do not like.
We think that in the in these young ages, as a youth, these are the times when you are most that are most formative in you picking up the patterns of interactions that are commonplace on a social level.
Of course, there are other opportunities for this socialization, but the but why school is so important is is that it provides regularity in testing out those social interactions.
It provides that type of pattern recognition and recognition and repetition that allows children to learn this behavior.
So why does learning social norms even matter?
Why do we care that people are learning how to be socially acute?
Well, firstly, this allows children to become savvy adults who know how to navigate various situations they will face.
The conflict resolution skills, the social cues that you pick up as a child, are all crucial in learning how to navigate the adult world, learning how to navigate situations in which you may have to deal with people that you don't want to deal with, deal with adversity, of working with those you may not like.
These are the skills you pick up at a young age and to not go to school, to be homeschooled, means you lose out on valuable repetition, on valuable pattern building, and it means that you're less likely to be that savvy adult that can stand on their own and interact in a social sphere.
Children also learn about themselves and who they are through these normal interactions.
They learn about whether or not they're someone that is more outgoing, they learn about what drains their energy and how they can conserve that energy.
You start to pick up on these cues at a very young age, and you start forming habits that stick with you for the rest of your life.
And finally, we think that the friends and bonds that you build in the school system is incredibly beneficial for the social and emotional support that one needs, especially at a young age.
And we think that homeschooling denies people of forming those bonds.
All right.
So, secondly, on quality of education.
We think the quality of education is likely to be higher in a school, even if parents can get the credentials to teach or hire a tutor.
Few reasons: first, more teacher experience for those in the schools.
We think that you're just more likely to have experienced teachers than you are when you have parents that are doing this for the first time or simply hiring a tutor to teach your child.
This means that you're probably going to have people with better educational techniques who can better inform and actually educate your child, which is the most important aspect of the education system.
Secondly, we think you have more diversity of of personalities amongst teachers and allows students to find teachers and aides they work well with, teachers that understand their learning styles and that allow them, again, to be educated better.
We also think the infrastructure at schools allow for more diverse classes.
Classes like programming, classes like band, classes like home economics, these are things that you don't get in the home system when you have people that are simply ensuring that you meet the general requirements of of a GED, of meeting the general requirements of a high school graduate.
Fourthly, we think that there're extracurriculars that you simply cannot get in the home.
This also compounds with the socialization harms, and we think you're better set up for the future when your grades are coming from an accredited institution or a school than if it's coming from some sort of home school.
We think for both socializing children and for educating your children that home schools are inferior to public or private schools and for these reasons, homeschooling should be banned.