We should fight for quebecan independence.
So, when we say we're going to fight for quebecan independence, what we mean is that, generally, on the international stage and the international arena, states should support the quebecois and should support the independence of quebec, that people both within the state and without of the state should rally to the cause of quebecan independence.
So, a few reasons why we think this is the case.
The first is specific to to quebec, which is that quebec, compared to the rest of canada, has a separate national identity.
You're looking at a system in which quebec is a largely french province.
It's a province that speaks french as a primary language.
It has a french system of governance, and it has a history that is unique that is uniquely french that separates it from the much more british provinces that exist throughout the rest of canada.
It's just simply a different type of culture that people grow up in, and it means that there is a divide for people that exist within quebec.
They don't recognize themselves first as canadians, like most canadians do.
If you're from toronto, you don't recognize yourself as primarily a toronton, but you recognize yourself, first and foremost, as canadian.
But that's not the case for people that live in this region, and that's demonstrated by the fact that there's been a long history of independence movements within quebec.
Going on for the past one hundred years one hundred plus years, people have been trying to gain their independence.
This region in canada's been trying to become its own separate entity, and we think that the general public wants this to be the case.
Most quebecans want to be an independent state.
They want to have their sovereignty, and they want to have the ability to govern themselves in a way that they see fit.
And that brings us to our second point, which is that we think that the principle of self-governance is tantamount to a just state.
We think that a state that is not governed through popular sovereignty, that does not have the approval of the people that it's governing, is no more than an authoritarian bully, even if like in canada, it has a democratic system overall.
We think that what this essentially needs, first and foremost, to have a system of self-governance, you need to have people want to be a member of the state.
And when you have a system where, en masse, people do not want to be a part of canada, they do not want to be a part of the state, it means that even if they vote, even if they exist within the structures of the state, their life, their beliefs are a protest against the state itself.
And in this system, we don't think that people when people come together as a collective and they want to be independent, they want to be sovereign, we think that these people should have the right based on the same principles of self-governance that we allow people to vote in our democratic systems.
Based on those same principles, these individuals should be the should have the right to separate from the rest of canada.
And it's not like certain instances in which you have independence movements where it's just wealthy people that want to get away from the state so they don't have to pay taxes.
Quebec has an, as I mentioned earlier, a unique national identity.
It is, in many respects, entirely different from the rest of canada, and it has a it has a legitimate claim to having its own independence.
We think that even regardless of that, the principle of self-governance dictates that when you have a legitimate independence movement, like exists with the quebecois, we think that it is necessary that you respect that, and to not respect that, to not fight for that, is to give in to authoritarianism.
For these reasons, we should fight for quebecan independence.