We should end progressive taxation.
In this debate we wanna make it clear that what we're talking about when it comes to progressive taxation, whether it's taxation in the form of income or property, or of any other sort of service, we're talking about the rate at which people are being taxed rather than talking about the total amount that people are being taxed.
We think that the rate of taxation being progressive is the root cause of problems, the root cause of kind of the principled problems with taxation as it currently stands, rather than the actual hard numbers being different between people who are being taxed.
Alright, so we have two main arguments.
The first is about how people have an equality obligation to the state, and the second is about how in essence taxes are theft and progressive taxation is a morally bankrupt concept, because it forces certain people to be taxed at higher levels simply because they've earned more wealth.
Alright, so equality of obligation.
We would say that all people, having been citizens of the state, having chosen or having consented into the state, through being using the state's resources, through taking part in the states voting system, through any other metric or proxy for consent the state can come up with, has brought upon to themselves an obligation to the state.
An obligation to fortify the state in the form of money, to fortify the state in the form of protection and in the form of support.
Taxes are a major way in which we we re-pay our obligation to the state.
Through our taxation we give money to the states, so it continues to provide the services, the well being the rights protections, all those things that we require of the state, and that we oblige the state to give us.
Our relationship with the state, a citizens relationship with the state is one of mutual obligation.
A system of progressive taxation says in essence if you are a wealthier individual if you have a higher income, you have a higher obligation to the state than anyone else.
This simply is unfair.
Many people that are of lower income end up taking more hard resources from the state.
Take more actual physical resources from the state in form of funding, of subsidies and food, in health care, all these things.
And all people gain benefits to infrastructure that allow them to participate in business, to store wealth, all these things.
Yes, it's certainly true that wealthy people get certain things more than other people do, but this is a give and take that is the case across all different class levels.
It's unfair to say that people who are wealthy necessarily earned more from the state rather than them and having earned more because of their hard work, because of their labor, because of their situation outside of the states doing.
For these reasons we think that it's unfair to provide an unequal obligation for people simply because they're wealthy.
And the second reason and kind of final argument we want to make is that taxes are in essence a form of theft.
You earn your money, you earn your money and your wages through your hard work, through your effort, and you accumulate property.
And taxes are a way for the state to take that property away from you without you having any sort of consent over whether or not that's going to be the case.
We think that to single out one group of individuals, that being wealthy individuals, as those that we are going to communally decide we are going to take more from is nothing more than using the state as a proxy to steal from those that are the wealthiest.
Yes, these people may be better off than the average citizen, but this doesn't mean that they are morally bankrupt, it doesn't mean that they have a dessert claim to having that wealth stolen from them, and it doesn't mean that they should have a higher obligation to the state that any other citizen that has earned the bounties of the protection that the state can provide.
For these reasons we should end progressive taxation.