We should not cancel the national flood insurance program.
So we actually think that rather than canceling the program, we should make it more robust.
We should put more money into the national flood insurance program.
We should get more people made aware of the fact that their house may potentially be in a flood plain.
We should update the maps that are currently used and the insurance program should be both better funded and should be covering more individuals than it already is.
Yes we think there will be incredibly high costs associated with this, but we think that the government is largely responsible for the harms that that are being accrued in these instances and are certainly responsible in any case for upholding the welfare of its citizens.
So we're gonna get into the responsibility of the government in a bit.
We think it's important to first talk about how many people simply aren't aware that they're in flood plains.
So the way that the national flood insurance program works is that the united states government does a survey of different areas that are prone to flooding, it it marks areas that are considered to be flood plains, areas with an elevated risk of flooding, and then an insurance program is applied to those areas.
Money is put into the system so that when homes in these areas are destroyed that those homes can be rebuilt.
The problem is that global warming has changed these maps to an absurd degree.
Look at houston during the hurricane season that swept through last year.
Many areas of houston that were underwater never would've flood in this way and never experience flooding like it had in that way and the maps that are being used in the status quo were created decades ago before the worst impacts of global warming actually came to pass.
You have more intense storms, you have storms in more areas, it means that you have more water coming down.
And in addition to that because of the increased amount of development in areas like houston where you have more paving, more concrete, less ability for the water to soak into the soil because there's simply more development in these areas, of course they're going to be more prone to flooding.
But people aren't made aware of those things when they put investments into these communities, when they buy houses, when they develop businesses and the government's partly responsible for not making people aware of these things.
The government knew about global warming, it knew about the impacts of global warming, but it did next to nothing for decades to mitigate those harms and we think that the government's primary responsibility is for up is to uphold the general welfare, to make sure that its citizens within its borders are protected and have a fair shake to have a high quality of life.
But with with benefits given to businesses with a blind eye turned towards the impacts of global warming many people are being impacted by this that never would have thought that they would be impacted by global warming in the ways they are now and it's only going to get worse.
More and more homes are going to be under water, more people are going to lose vast amounts of personal wealth when their property is simply wiped away, when their houses no longer exists, and for those reasons if for no other reason than to avoid a second housing market collapse to avoid immense amounts of value being stored in these homes to be immediately removed, we think it's necessary to continue the national flood insurance program.
To make sure that homes that people can be secure that their homes will have value and recognize you can just you can tell these people hey just sell your home and move somewhere else but that just means someone else is moving into the same area with the same problems or it means that they're losing immense value in their homes that they expected to be there before the worst harms of global warming came through so it's not an easy situation but it is a situation that the government is partly responsible for and we believe has an obligation to protect against.
For these reasons we should not cancel the national flood insurance program.