We should limit the right to asylum.
In this debate we don't think that we necessarily need to adopt incredibly stringent checks, we don't think we need to set exactly what those limits are going to be, but we're going to provide a model of what those limits would likely look like and we'll give a principle justification for why limits are something that are necessary in regards to the right to asylum.
So, a model.
We think that simple things like background checks on the people coming from dangerous areas and caps on the number of asylum seekers granted asylum are necessary in order to allow a states to function.
Rules don't need to be arcane but you need some sort of rules to promote the national interest.
So that's what we're going to talk about in this debate: why the government exists, first and foremost, to serve the people within its borders, and why that means that asylum must be limited.
So why did the state have an overriding obligation to citizens of that state?
Because people within the state pay taxes, serve in the military, are subject to the laws of the state and give up freedoms in being subject to those laws, these are all massively coercive aspects of a state.
It coerces people into behave in ways that they otherwise may not want to and coerces them into making sacrifices in their individual lives for the betterment of the state in general.
In doing so they earn certain privileges of citizenship that are meant to balance out the coercive power of the state and make that state just.
In essence the state must give preferential treatment to its citizens in order for it to be just, in order for it to justify the course of power of taxation, for servitude in the military, etcetera.
Asylum seekers are granted most of those privileges without the burdens that come with them.
Furthermore, they often come with the fewest resources available to them because they're fleeing some sort of situation that was dangerous in their previous country, one in which they may have had their assets seized, in which they may not have had many assets to begin with, and this means they are largely dependent on the state that they're fleeing to, which means that they are necessarily taking resources that other people needed to sacrifice for in order to earn.
These are resources that have been earned by members of the state and there is a necessary trade off between individual asylum seekers and individual citizens within a state because these resources are fungible.
Things like access to food stamps, things like access to public resources, and public funds are all fungible resources that cannot be shared between two people.
We do not think that we should damn people to the fate of an evil government.
We don't think that you need to necessarily restrict asylum in all cases because we think that there are obligations that people have to all other people to try and uphold and protect their human rights.
In fact that's how rights become so important.
That's how they gain power is by making an obligation on all people to uphold those those rights.
But there is an overriding obligation that the government has when it comes to their citizens.
An obligation that outweighs taking in all refugees and and fulfilling the rights of all people in all instances.
Because if you were to if you were to adopt that standard the state would obviously collapse.
And therefore we think that there are certain reasonable restrictions that you can place on asylum seekers.
Things that otherwise would cause the members of your citizenry to seriously suffer at the expense of other individuals which makes the coercive power of the state no longer justified.
This can come in the form of bringing in dangerous people that can harm the citizens of your state or in the form of draining collective resources to the point where you cannot pay those resources out to citizens that are in need of them.
Because of this you need reasonable limits on asylum.
Otherwise you harm those citizens who have an who you have an overriding obligation to beyond those basic obligations that you have to uphold all human rights.
For these reasons we should limit the right of asylum.