We should not abolish the presidential pardon in this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think the presidential pardon, because it exists, should continue to exist.
The first is that, in a variety of different ways, the presidential pardon serves as an important political tool.
Let's look at some examples of what we mean by this.
Well, in one way, presidential pardons have been used on historical figures to to pardon individuals for crimes that, in retrospect, we think they shouldn't have been punished for or instances in which the legal system has done wrong, looking at examples of specifically of black individuals, when they were persecuted under jim crow laws, or individuals that were fighting for their rights, whether in the women's rights movement, or the civil rights movement, the gay rights movement, individuals that have been thrown into jail and and violated laws that did exist in that time, for example, jim crow laws, but pardoning them in retrospect because we recognized, with our modern sensibilities, that these people have not committed a crime.
It's a it's a it's a confronting with our justice system in instances with when it's failed and it gives a tool for undoing those failures.
It also sends a political signal, though, to those groups and to people affected from those things.
It says that we respect your struggle.
It says that we are not that same society that punished you and did you wrong.
It says that we are going in a certain political direction.
When you do something like pardon martin luther king after the fact, posthumously, it says that the civil rights movement was correct, that the actions they took were justified, and it shifts the way, the historical lens from which we view these actions, and we think that all of these are things that are preferable.
And this can still be done in the modern times.
It can be used as a political tool to dictate when the president thinks that the legislature is doing a poor job, when there are laws that are unjust that should not exist.
And while in certain instances, this may violate individual sensibilities, as far as a political tool, it's not undermining the whole of of the justice system.
These things are used selectively.
They're used maybe a couple of hundred times over the course of a four year period, in a country in which thousands and millions of different cases could come up in that time.
And because of that, we think that this isn't undermining the justice system in any meaningful way, but as a political tool, it's important to send signals about the direction our country is going in.
It also brings flexibility to the justice system.
So the justice system, in many respects, is context blind.
If you commit a crime in in instances that we may feel justified, there are certain protections that can be allowed for you, degrees to which you are charged for those crimes.
But if I steal to feed my family, something that we think all people would find to be reasonable, would be something that we would all do, you can still get sent to jail.
You can still be punished for that thing.
And we think that instances like this, while certainly that's not an example that a presidential pardon would likely come into effect for, it's an example of how context can matter and why context can justify certain actions that you would be punished for on the federal level, which is why things like gubernatorial pardons exist: to do so on more localized levels.
We think that that same principle should apply at the presidential level, that the justice system doesn't always get it right, that it must be inflexible in certain degrees to ensure equal application of justice, but we think it's important to have a tool like a pardon to allow people to be given breaks when the context dictates that they should be.
For these reasons, we should not abolish the presidential pardon.