We should not abolish homework.
Many people, especially those that are recently out of college or those that have recently had to deal with having to do homework, of going home every day after a long day in class and then still having more to do, view homework as like the bane of a student's existence.
But we think that homework actually serves an incredibly crucial purpose and makes it the education system better overall.
Let's talk about why that is.
We think that homework's primary purpose is to reinforce daily lessons, that when you do something in the classroom, it doesn't stick with you.
It doesn't carry over and really embed itself in your mind unless you do tasks that repeat that that repeat and cause you to reinforce the knowledge of what you were doing.
This is why when you learn, say, in a math class some sort of new concept, say, you're learning multiplication for the first time and a teacher does some examples on the board to kind of illustrate how multiplication works, but at the end of the day, when you've left the classroom, when you have zoned out for a number of hours since that lesson and are now going home, you you normally aren't engaged with what you learned in the classroom that day and it starts to fall out of your memory.
You start to forget how it works, and it makes it so that when you go back into class the next day, you need to spend more time re-engaging in what you learned the previous day which ends up, when you're doing this over and over every day for the course of a school year, ends up losing entire days of days or weeks in the classroom of productivity just reinforcing and going over the lesson of the day before.
But homework forces you to practice the thing that you learned that day and through that practice and through that repetition, the memory and the understanding of what you're doing is more embedded.
It also means that if you're doing something, say, again, in this math example, if you didn't understand it in the first place, it forces you to go over those concepts once more, say, on your own through a textbook, or with a tutor, or a parent.
We think that these things make it more likely that misunderstandings you have to begin with are caught by the teacher, especially when they're going through and grading your homework, and it means that there's more opportunities for the teacher to check your progress and makes it more easy for them to then intervene if your progress is not sufficient.
Without homework, if you're having if the only time you're checking on the progress and understanding of a student is things like quizzes and tests, one: these are far more infrequent, which means that it's less likely that you're going to check these things before the misunderstanding multiplies and you start to apply that misunderstanding to further concepts, but it also means that when you're when you have this misunderstanding, it's coming at the times that have the biggest impact on your grade, your future, and your well-being in the educational system.
And we think that none of that is acceptable.
Yes, there are incredibly high workloads on students in the status quo.
Students nowadays are doing more outside of the classroom than ever before, and that's a reason why you should have things like teachers coordinate between each other to ensure that you're not assigning too much homework each night, to set caps on the amount of homework you can assign, for example, no more than ten minutes a day or fifteen minutes a day per hour of actual time in the classroom, limiting for a whole for a whole day the amount of homework to, say, something like an hour, an hour and a half.
And, yes, while this may seem a this may seem like a large burden to place on a student, when you're getting out of school at something like three in the afternoon and you're doing homework for, say, an hour and a half afterwards, that's still hours and hours before you need to get up and before you need to go to sleep and get ready for the next day for you to have time to de-stress, have time to unwind and pursue those extracurriculars that you find most valuable.
We think that homework is a necessary part of our educational system and that removing it would be a detriment not just to students but to teachers and their parents.
For these reasons, we should not abolish homework.