We should not limit the right to self-defense.
So, we think that throughout the government's speech, the government misunderstands what it means to limit the right of self-defense.
We think that it is not the case that all claims of self-defense are self-defense, and when people act in poor ways and claims it was based on self-defense, the society, the legal system should be able to say, " no, you committed assault, not self-defense, and you will be tried for that assault. "
Given that this is the case, we think that the debate really is about in instances when you are at risk, when genuine self-defense is required, you shouldn't be limited in the degree to which you can act on that self-defense, meaning, if you are in harm's way, you should have the right to kill the aggressor.
We think that your right to life being violated by another person ultimately gives you the ability, puts you on the high ground to act in the way you see fit.
The first argument the government side makes is that violence begets more violence and that a more violent society overall comes and that people are bad at making decisions.
First, we think about punishing assault deters this.
We think that if people see that claiming self-defense does not mean that they will ultimately get away with something, that you can still have a strong right to self-defense without having people take that too far.
They give the example of george zimmerman, but george zimmerman was clearly not acting in self-defense.
And just because the legal system did not recognize this doesn't mean that the right to self-defense overall should be removed or should be curtailed.
We think that not all claims of self-defense are legitimate, and we're fine to acknowledge that.
But we think that on either side of the house, people are going to claim self-defense in instances because of exactly what the government says: people are bad at making decisions.
So this is an argument about whether or not legal protection should be afforded to those acting in self-defense, and we think that those legal protections should be incredibly high.
When people commit assault, punish them, but this doesn't mean you have to restrict the right to self-defense.
They say that this is an umbrella for racist actions and, again, this is a conflation.
The government side conflates, time and again, self-defense with all of these other societal issues.
Yes, when trayvon martin was killed by george zimmerman, the the legal system, in my opinion, got it wrong.
George zimmerman should have been punished, but this doesn't mean that george zimmerman acted in self-defense and therefore he got away, it's that the legal system is corrupt and let him get away with it.
On either side of the house, the legal system will likely be corrupted.
And this actually brings me to their last argument, which I'll address now, about how this is a gendered right and a privileged right and that therefore we should curtail it so that people with the most privilege shouldn't get this obscene right.
But if you think that the system is flawed, then we think that even if you diminish this right to an extent, the people that are actually going to be punished in the system are going to be those people that are already marginalized.
This just means that they have even fewer protections than they would have on our side of the house, and the people that are already privileged are probably still going to be seen as acting in a justified manner.
To get to their second argument, which I skipped over, they say it's okay for the government to intervene because people make bad decisions in fear, and the state is a better decision-maker.
Again, people will make bad decisions on both sides of the house.
This is an argument about when people act justifiably, we think that there shouldn't be any sort of limit on what they are allowed to do.
We think that in those instances, the right to self-defense must be absolute and for these reasons, we should not limit the right of self-defense.