We should encourage self-employment.
We're not going to get too deep into the specifics of how we're going to encourage this.
We think, broadly, that you can do things like give tax breaks or subsidies to people that start a small business, or work as freelancers, or work in some sort of way that they aren't tied to a preexisting corporation or business.
A few reasons why we think this is crucial: the first is that automation is leading to a loss of jobs.
So, in the near future, automation will be able to do many, many more human jobs than it is currently capable of doing, for example, autonomous driving.
As it currently exists, the technology is largely capable to take over the job of every truck driver, taxi driver, uber driver, and transportation service person in the country, in the entire world.
The technology is at that level at this point.
It's just a matter of regulation and adoption and when that occurs, the single highest employer in the united states will now need to employ, the single highest job will now be simply unemployable.
No one will be hiring for truck drivers anymore when you can pay for one truck that is autonomous, that doesn't have to stop for breaks, that doesn't need that doesn't need to be paid any sort of money aside from upkeep.
It is just an easy transition to that autonomous opportunity.
Where does self-employment come in mind?
If we encourage self-employment and if we encourage people to shift away from corporations and shift towards doing things that they are allowed to be their own boss, that they control their employment, it means that fewer people are in this in this job market that is going to be swept up by autonomous by autonomous workers, and will then and it means more people are already in that process of transitioning to a to a post-corporate world, to a world in which you are your own employer, in which you have to have your own business.
We think that fewer people in the job market, as far as corporate work, and more people that are under self-employment means fewer people that are impacted by automation in general.
We think that self-employment also encourages innovation, which is: one, just good for our society writ large.
We think that innovation often leads to technological and social progress, and those are all things we can get behind.
But additionally, innovation in services makes it less easy to automate jobs.
So if you have self-employment, if you, say, for example, have someone that starts a small business and comes up with a new way of servicing some sort of field, of doing some sort of product, it means that automation can't take hold of that as quickly as it's taking hold of existing sectors of the economy, and it means, again, more jobs available when that autonomous wave comes.
But finally, outside of talking about automation, we think that self-employment has various life benefits.
First, you get to pick your own hours.
You get to choose when and when you when you will and won't work, and it means that you can choose basically how much income you want to take in based on the load that you're doing.
It also means that you have an immense amount of latitude over your work.
You get to decide what is and is not an important way to spend your time.
You get to choose the people that you want to work with and, for example, if you maybe have a customer that you didn't particularly like at your first job, you, at this new job, can just choose not to service them.
You have that ability.
You can do work that you genuinely enjoy when you've the latitude to decide what that work is going to be and how it's going to be done.
We think that self-employment can be incredibly fulfilling and additionally important, it's going to be incredibly important for our transition to a more autonomous economic environment.
For these reasons, we should encourage self-employment.