Community service should not be mandatory.
We think that whatever promises of utility the government side of this debate presents to you, it is fundamentally unjust to take someone and force them to labor without pay.
Whether it will be good for the community overall or good for the government does not counteract the fact that you are fundamentally forcing people to do labor that they did not volunteer for, that they themselves gain no benefit for, that creates a tradeoff over what they could be doing that would be more valuable to them, and dictating how they can use their time.
We think that the government exists not to force people to do things that it finds to be utile but rather to to create an apparatus of freedom that allows people to make choices for themselves in a meaningful way.
We think that mandatory community service goes entirely against the purpose of the government and is a massive breach of what the government is certified to do by the people.
The first argument the government side makes is that it would improve the way that people treat the environment and treat their community, because if people have to work to keep their environment and their community clean, they gain an appreciation for it.
They take pride in it.
They're less likely to do things like litter.
First, this will never outweigh the fact that you are forcing in a country, say this was the united states, in a country of the united states forcing hundreds of millions of people to do hours of unpaid labor is not only an economic drain, but is tantamount to forcing slave labor onto people, which we think is unjust.
But we also think for those reasons, it's equally possible that people feel resentment over the fact that they're being forced to do labor that they are not being compensated for.
In addition, we also think that this probably removes jobs that people would actually be compensated for.
Like if you have a force of, you know, an entire town that's forced to clean that town and do community work on that town, then a bunch of administrative jobs suddenly go away.
Garbage collectors, sewage maintenance people, these types of people suddenly lose their jobs and it creates a market harm.
And and it creates resentment both from those being forced to do the labor and those that can no longer do the labor, which we mean thinks this probably makes people less likely to feel a tie to their community and less likely to treat it well.
The second argument is that this is just a public good because there are less expenses and more gain.
Well, for all the reasons I just outlined, we don't think it's really a public good.
It's maybe a government good because the government can spend less money but, ultimately, it means that that money is that they would have otherwise been using is just being extracted in the form of free labor from its citizenry, which is massively unjust.
And we think that most of the the work that's being done by these community service areas can be done to actually create good, hard-paying jobs, which gets us to the third argument that they make: that something needs to replace mandatory military service ; that in times of mandatory military service, people were able to have something to do after college that gave them job experience, taught them lessons, all these types of things, and they need something else.
But unlike the military, this is unpaid labor.
If this argument if the debate that the government side presented was instead as was that the government should create more public sector jobs in order to employ people in the short term and that those public sector jobs would be in areas like environmental preservation and doing things to beautify and keep the community safe, we're all for that, because those are jobs that people can voluntarily take.
But when you're forcing people to do unpaid labor, we don't think they're gaining nearly the benefits that military service ever provided, especially cause there's no pay.
It doesn't create any sort of similar skills and because of this, we think people are just going to feel like they are wasting their time and doing something that they don't want to be doing.
For these reasons, community service should not be mandatory.