We should not end mining.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why mining is essential and needs to stay.
The first argument we want to make is that a free market, a market that allows people to pursue the ends that they desire, is the most just market.
So we think that the reason that capitalism's such a beneficial system is that it allows people to pursue the ends that they see as most fitting given their desires.
So, if I want to open up a mining business, I'm able to do so and it's able to be something that I can either sink or swim on my own, that I can pursue the outcomes that I see as most desirable.
And, on the other side of that, if I'm someone seeking employment, I can choose to go be employed at a mine.
I can take on the risks of being a miner if I see fit that those risks are worthwhile, and I can go and make those choices for myself.
It's a system that lacks government paternalism.
It's a system that doesn't force the government to make choices for me and recognizes that I'm the most informed about my standing and my situation, and I'm the one that's best able to decide what's right for me moving forward.
We think that a free market system, on principle, is the most just system to have and is one that allows for mining to exist.
A ban on mining, ending mining, would be something that contradicts that entire sort of free market principle and is something that we don't think can stand within a just democratic state.
Secondly, recognize that we still need the resources that mining produces.
Mining isn't just about coal.
It's not just about shale.
Mining also produces things like rare earth metals and the types of irons and resources that we need in order to improve our lives.
Look at in the status quo, for example, there's a massive shortage of rare earth metals, and these metals are very crucial.
Things like gold, platinum are crucial because these are the things that allow us to build the technology that we use in a day in our day-to-day lives.
Things like cell phones, computers, televisions, these things are not possible without the rare earth metals that we get from mining.
And in the status quo, we're running drastically short of these things partly because people don't recycle enough, but also because there's an incredible amount of growth in the demand for these types of products.
More and more markets are opening up for things like for things like cell phones and personal computers.
And given that that's the case, we think that we need to continue mining to keep up with the with the demand for these products and because these products are so beneficial to the lives of people that use them.
The internet connectivity that we have right now in the developed nation is something that allows us to have a more connected world, more information at our fingertips.
These things are crucial, and we need mining in order to get these products.
Finally, we think that regulation solves for most of the harms of mining.
First when it comes to environmental harms, these are things that can largely be regulated.
You can ensure that mining doesn't take place in certain areas.
You can make sure that mining doesn't take place to such a degree that it degrades the environment around them, that there's no like pollution of the water supply that's caused by mining.
All these things can be done through regulation but without banning or ending mining altogether.
And secondarily, the regulation for employees, the regulation to ensure safety, again, these are things that can be done to ensure safety.
Mining as an industry has come a long way from where it was a few hundred years ago in which people were dying on a daily basis from mining operations.
You can now have safe mining.
There's the technology that exists to ensure it can be done in a safe way and if you have the regulatory authority and capacity, you can ensure that those regulations are in place to ensure worker safety.
For these reasons, we should not end mining.