We should protect animal welfare.
So when we're talking about protecting animal welfare, we think this goes for both domestic animals as well as animals in the wild.
Maybe the methods that we go about would be different between the two, but we think generally animals should be given a basic level of decency and of compassion and of care when in relation to humans.
The first and biggest argument that we want to make is that we think animals deserve to have rights.
So let's break this down.
When we're talking about rights, when we're talking about who deserves to have rights, it's important to assess the nature of rights themselves.
We do not think that rights are this ethereal thing that come from the heavens or that there's something that is divinely given, but rather we think it is something that is created, it is constructed by our society.
It is something that is driven by logic.
It's something that is driven by an idea that we need to protect and uphold certain tenets.
So if these rights are constructed by societies, we think that in order for those rights to have any sort of power, any sort of foundation, you need to have a system that is unbiased.
You need to have a system that does that doesn't make generalizations or system that doesn't just separate groups for arbitrary reasons.
We think it needs to be a logical system and we think that what rights actually come down to in a very real sense is about maximizing pain and minimizing pleasure.
Any right that we may construct is based on that foundation that whatever we are protecting or prohibiting would have an immense impact on our ability to minimize pleasure or minimize pain and maximize pleasure.
But if we're if we're constructing rights with this basis of minimizing pain and maximizing pleasure which even if that's not the justification for them overtly, that is the the implicit justification of any system of rights.
So if we are doing it based on maximizing pain and minimizing closure, we think animals certainly need to be included because animals are beings that are capable of expressing pain and are capable of feeling pleasure and we can see this in our interactions with them and we know that they are having these impacts.
They can feel these impacts and so one might say well why don't we just not count animals but that becomes a system in which we create an arbitrary division and maybe you're trying to draw a division that's something like intelligence.
Well animals are as intelligent as humans but if we start creating intelligence tests for who deserves rights, then we go down a slippery slope of excluding certain humans and if you say well the division is just that we are human and they aren't well humanity has nothing to do with that underlying understanding of pain or pleasure.
If we care about minimizing pain and maximizing pleasure and we view that those things in a vacuum are things that should be maintained, are things that we should strive for, then when you add in this extra condition of animal or human this shouldn't this shouldn't make any sort of difference.
In order for a right system to be strong, to be firm, and to uphold those rights, we think that based on its own logic it must be consistent and it cannot have these arbitrary lines drawn.
Arguing against protecting animal welfare is inherently arguing against the idea that animals have rights and to argue against the idea that animals have rights undermine the rights of all of us by allowing us to create arbitrary distinctions over who and what does not deserve these rights and puts us down a slippery slope.
For these reasons, we should protect animal welfare.