The blockade of the gaza strip should be ended.
So we think that there's one basic principled argument as to why this must be the case and that is that the blockade of the gaza strip is tantamount to unjust warfare and our is essentially a crime of war.
So let's walk through this.
The justifications that are legally put forward and on the world stage and diplomatic issues by israel is that this blockade is necessary measure in order to prevent weapons and other types of aid getting to israel's enemies, that in order for hamas not to be provided with the types of resources to do damage to israel that this blockade is necessary and because israel is in a state of war that this is a justified war time act that can be taken.
Maybe in other instances this blockade wouldn't be just, it would be a violation of sovereignty but this is a wartime act and that this is okay.
The problem with this is that it's simply not the case that all acts in war are just and their centuries of jurisprudence and treaties going back all the way to the sixteen hundreds that set out boundaries as to what is just within war and what is unjust in war.
We think that this is unjust because it broadly and intentionally targets civilians.
We think that there are a series of treaties that exist in the status quo, many of which that israel is party to, that say that noncombatants who did not consent to the to the pressures of war who did not consent to the harms of war who did not put them in a sphere where they can be justifiably harmed should not be harmed and that an act such as this even if its intention isn't a harm those civilians knowing full well that those civilians are going to bear the bulk of the damage from this blockade means that this is an unjust act of war violates those treaties it violates what israel is signed onto.
What the blockade does is it prevents most materials from getting into gaza.
This includes essentials like food, building materials for shelter, medicine, and other basic goods.
This massively harms the civilians of gaza understandably who have little ability to escape due to a land blockade.
So even if these people wanted to leave even if they want to get out it's very difficult for them to escape because of the suspicion that people that are coming into israel from the gaza strip may be members of hamas, they may be dangerous, these types of things and so not only are these people being denied their basic needs but they're essentially being trapped in an area where they cannot secure those needs.
This in top of all of that the blockade doesn't even impact those who are targeted by the blockade because hamas can use their strong man tactics to gather the goods that do exist.
Clearly rocket attacks and other hamas actions have not stopped due to this blockade, clearly hamas is still a powerful body that can still do harm to israel and can still cause harm.
We think that this means that civilians are the primary targets of this blockade, even if they're not the intentional targets they are the ones that are bearing the vast majority of the damage and when we're deciding in a just sentence what is justified within war if the action is something that the outcomes of which are impacting noncombatants more than combatants we don't think that intention matters.
We think that the direct outcomes and the expected outcomes because this isn't something that israel didn't know was going to happen, this isn't something that was unfathomable that the people of gaza the people of the gaza strip are going through this is something that was a reasonable expectation of this action.
We think you can still have high border security, you can still have intelligence in the gaza strip to prevent imminent attacks, but these are reasonable steps to take in a situation of warfare.
The blockade simply is not.
For these reasons, the blockade of the gaza strip should be ended.