We should not limit genetic testing.
Over history people feared the science that they did not understand but if we had given into that fear in our past, we think that we would be living in a much different time.
A time with less human growth, a time with less technological advancement, a time where more people suffer from diseases that we can currently prevent, and we think that we shouldn't fear the impacts that genetic testing may have moving forward.
We're gonna make two main arguments about why we should not limit genetic testing and the first is about scientific advancement.
We think there are three main fields where genetic testing can have an immense impact and where limiting that type of genetic testing would be problematic.
The first is in the field of medicine.
Recognize that there are an immense number of diseases that are caused specifically by our genetics.
That there are chromosomal disorders and different genetic disorders that give rise to diseases explicitly but also give a higher propensity for other diseases.
For example there are genetic predispositions to things like alzheimer's and things like diabetes but there are also even, we think, more possibilities of a link between genetics and disease and we think that being able to study those links makes it more likely that we moving forward have a more explicit understanding of how our genetics give us a propensity for certain diseases even diseases that we don't know have a genetic link in the status quo.
We think that in addition to being able to understand those impacts, things like crisper technology allow us to actually edit our genetic code in the status quo and could make it so that we could eradicate these diseases altogether moving forward.
We think that this would be a tremendous advancement for human society and for the individual health and well being of millions of people globally.
Secondly, we think that there's an immense potential for human engineering.
Some people say that the human existence and the way that we are now is is somehow divine or somehow the way we ought be because this is just how nature made us but we think that's simply foolish.
First and foremost, we mention that we make changes to our like human physiology all the time that are non-natural.
For example, cochlear implants in individuals and heart rate monitors things like this that make it possible for certain people to live a high quality of life.
We think that genetic testing in human engineering could do the same thing.
We think that certain things like being able to have higher endurance, the ability to have more brain capacity, the ability to be immune from certain diseases at birth, the ability to be able to create a child that is better able to live in the world that they grow up in, we think that that is a tremendous good that we can have and just because it's not natural doesn't mean that we shouldn't move forward.
Finally, genetic testing can also help us understand our human evolution which again we think opens the door to many of the scientific avenues.
The model reason that we think limiting genetic testing would be problematic is because there's already an immense financial investment that comes with genetic testing.
There are businesses all around the world that have poured immense resources especially since the development of crisper have poured immense resources into genetic testing and when they did so they did so with the understanding of a current regulatory framework that we have.
We think that introducing new regulations at this stage in the game, would go against the obligation that the government has to allow people to prosper and to allow those people to freely use their funds as they see fit and because all these types of limitations that we have put in place are not due to known bad outcomes but rather due to our own fears of potential outcomes that aren't proven or haven't been shown to be likely to occur, we think that putting these limitations in place would not have due need and would go directly against the financial investment that too many people have made and would have an overall economic impact that would be problematic.
For these reasons, we should not limit genetic testing.