We should tax remittances.
So to be clear, we think that states should tax outgoing remittances.
So if I'm going to wire money from the country I'm working in as a foreign worker back to my home, that amount of money should be taxed at a certain set rate or even at a progressive rate, depending on how much money is being sent home in the remittances.
The exact structure of this tax is not something that we're super concerned with, but rather we think that the tax should exist and it should be at a reasonable level given the amount of money that's being sent out.
Two big reasons why this is important: first, it limits the loss of capital from foreign workers.
This capital is all a net loss for the state.
When a foreign worker comes in and takes a job in the state, sure, it is giving value to the business that it's working for in the form of labor, but that type of value does not then get reimbursed into the system or recycled into the system like the value does if you are a domestic worker.
Because if I go to my job and I do my job and provide value for the business that I work for, the money that is being paid to me ultimately ends up going back into the domestic economy.
So it's a cyclical it's a cycle that allows for the same money to be recycled over and over again within the state and build value for more people.
But when you have remittances, that money ends up going to foreign markets to be spent, because you're not buying groceries in the same country that you're working in, because you're not buying goods from domestic companies.
You're not buying services from domestic companies, rather it's all going into foreign markets, which means that it's this system is a system that compensates for the fact that foreign workers are coming in.
And it and it's better than preventing foreign workers from coming generally or taxing businesses when they bring in foreign workers, because those businesses may move out of the state because labor is cheaper, and it means that you're giving people more opportunity, but you're balancing the freedom of movement and the freedom for people to have an opportunity in your state with the obligations you have to your own citizens to try and create the most healthy and robust economy that you can.
And that's the other reason why remittances should be taxed.
It's because the state should give preference to its own citizens.
The type of cyclical spending that I talked about in my first argument is important for the overall well-being of the economy and, in on top of that, foreign workers don't have to pay the same taxes that people do who live in the state.
They don't have to have the same obligations, but they still get the benefits of state infrastructure and other types of services that are provided for the general welfare.
This means, overall, if you tax this if you tax remittances, that there are more funds going to your own citizens.
In a comparative world, it is straight value that is going back into your economy that otherwise would not be going into your economy.
And on top of that, we think that in the status quo, people have animosity for foreign workers, especially in developed nations, in europe, in the united states.
There's a massive amount of animosity, xenophobia, and nativism that is specifically targeted at foreign workers, this narrative that these people are coming in and stealing our jobs.
But this tax on remittances is an optical benefit because it makes them look less, it makes foreign workers look less exploitative.
It makes them look like they're contributing more to the economy, that even though they don't live in our state, even though they're sending money back home, it means that that money is still being taxed and in some way, the money is still going back into the US economy.
Yes, we don't think this is going to solve all xenophobia, but we certainly think that it's a optical step in the right direction that aligns with the obligations that the state has to its own citizens, and for these reasons, we should tax remittances.