The use of AI should not be abandoned.
We think that every time a new technology has come around fear mongering has always fallowed.
From the invention of the light bulb to the invention of the automobile to the invention of the internet, fear mongering has come with those innovations but so too has come economic prosperity and growth.
Not only do we think that AI is so embedded in the framework of how our society works from from dictating how factories will work to dictating supply chains to dictating the economic changes in our in our markets, we think that in addition these changes are positive and should not be abandoned.
The first argument that the government side makes takes on this fear mongering.
They say the long term risks outweigh the benefits and that ultimately AI is going to lay off jobs in a way that is distinct from say the horse being laid off by the automobile, because AI that is general purpose can do every job and you can always make AI that will be better at doing future jobs.
We actually don't disagree with this scenario.
We actually think it's incredibly likely that this will occur.
But we actually think that if you have a system like capitalism, people are forced to labor and toil and spend their lives doing , for the vast majority of people, jobs that they never wanted to do and jobs that are not fulfilling to them.
We think that AI presents us an opportunity to shift to a post resource economy.
A post capitalist economy.
We think that just think about how this will change capitalism.
Capitalism can literally not function with fifty percent unemployment.
If no one can afford to buy the goods you're producing then there's no feasible way to have a capitalist economy.
It just means that everyone will be broke at the end of the day.
And we think of the people in power not going to particularly want this.
Which means that we think that AI presents us the best opportunity in human history to shift the way that people are able to live their lives.
That people can live lives of fulfillment, of leisure.
They can dictate what outcomes they want to decide and will have the power to do the things they want to do for the first time in human history.
We agree the transition is going to be rough.
The next twenty to forty years between the point that we're out now with automation laying people off and the point that we predict will be at of a post resource economy, are going to be difficult.
But if we get through it we think the long term benefits to humans are astronomical.
The other argument they present is the kind of stereotypical super evil future of AI where the AI can go on and make bad decisions and people won't check it because they just believe in the AI and this just kind leads to the slippery slope of like: " oh maybe the AI is gonna kill us all. "
Look, we think that already people make horrible decisions.
We actually think that the leaders of the world really don't know what they're doing.
It's not like we've seen in the last twenty years that people have been able to make great decisions when it comes to big problems like, I don't know, global warming or the the or the refugee crisis coming out of middle east, or the lack of clean water.
Like, our leaders are already pretty bad at solving problems.
We think that AI is likely to be no worse and probably better because it can consume data in a way and be unbiased in the way that humans can not.
The second argument they make, we think it's kind of a throwaway argument, but it's that there's a bad use of funds and that you'd rather put money into food and clean water production.
Look, if you actually look at the firms that are investing in AI and the firms that are putting money into this RND, the alternative is not food and clean water production, it's: " okay I guess we'll invest in better processing power.
We'll invest in other forms of gathering data or we're gonna " they're not going to put money into food and water and clean water development.
But we think that what putting it into AI can do is because general purpose AI can address the problems that the government side brings up, investing in AI might provide solutions to the problems that the government side brings up in a way that increased processing power or other types of technological advancements may not.
For these reasons the use of AI should not be abandoned.