Homebirth should be banned.
We think that the alternative to homebirth in this world in which homebirth this banned is that you would need to be you would need to give birth in a medical facility under the supervision of someone who is medically trained to give birth.
We recognize that this is a likely a financial burden on people and therefore we think that maybe you can give subsidies for this, but this isn't where that debate is going to be headed.
We're willing to take on the burden that this is going to place on people, because we think it is so important that homebirth does not happen.
So two reasons, two pretty similar but very important reasons why homebirth should be banned.
The first is for the safety of the child and the second is for the safety of the mother.
So on the child: during birth we think the safety of the child is clearly at risk if it is not handled properly.
There can be unexpected birth defects that need immediate care, there can be an instance in which an umbilical cord was wrapped around the neck or elsewhere of a child, and can cut off circulation, can stop that child from being able to breath, and it can be the case that the child when they come out of the womb, isn't breathing properly.
There are many many things that can go wrong.
Especially when there is no one trained in the area to take care of the child.
The child is the most important actor to consider in this round even if the cost of the doctors is high, because that life, because this decision can be life or death.
You need to consider this above all else.
The child did not choose to be born, the child did not choose the situation in which they are being born, but given that someone has chosen to bring this person into the world we think that it is owed to that person that that birth his handled with the utmost care.
This is the type of care that you cannot get with a homebirth.
We think the child is not able to make the decision of the homebirth and therefore it is fair on the government's part to regulate in order to ensure that adequate conditions anyone would consent to are being met.
Any child would want to consent, would be willing to consent into a world in which they're born in a hospital.
Born in a medical facility in which there are there's medical equipment nearby that can help that child stay alive if something goes wrong.
There's a trained doctor around that can help that child stay alive if something goes round, if something goes wrong.
None of that is guaranteed in the household.
None of that is guaranteed in a homebirth, which is why it can be so dangerous to the child.
Yes it's true, most of the time it goes okay, most of the time the child is born fine, but in those instances in which it is not it can literally cost that child their life.
And because of that, we think those instances outweigh all the instances in which things go right.
Secondly, the safety of the mother.
We think the right to life is the most important of all rights, and that the government has an obligation to override personal choice when personal choices putting one's life I dramatic risk.
So why is pregnancy and why is childbirth an obvious risk and very risky for the mother?
Well, you can have an instance in which the mother goes into prolonged labor and they are forced to suffer through an incredibly long period of contractions, and different types of problematic outcomes that can come from that prolonged labor.
There can be tearing and exponential bleeding during childbirth that need to be treated with surgery immediately after childbirth, and if that is not done, it can cost the mother their life.
And a lack of medical knowledge of those around can cause any number of infections or other types of negative externalities who arise after birth has been completed.
We think that the government has an obligation to protect the women giving birth in these instances even if it is against their wishes.
Because the government is obligated to protect life first and foremost above all else.
Given the fact that these are risky both for the child and the mother and that the government has an obligation to protect both actors, and a strong obligation to do so, homebirths should be banned.