High school should not be mandatory.
In this round, we're going to defend an idea of non-mandatory high school as one in which after the age of sixteen, children can leave high school with their parents' consent.
So, three main arguments we want to make as to why we think that this is the most fair system of having secondary schooling: the first is that we think it's important to recognize that the state should exist in order to protect personal freedom above all else.
The reason that we think this is the case is that there's no real way for individuals to consent into or to opt out of the state, and to withdraw their consent, or to withdraw their consent from individual laws, for example.
There's no way for individuals to meaningfully leave the state which means it's, by definition, a coercive system.
We think that people would consent into the state, would consent into a coercive system if that coercive system was protecting something that they didn't have outside of that state apparatus and that and that's security for their freedoms.
It's security for individuals to live the lives they want to live outside that they wouldn't otherwise be able to do without the state apparatus protecting their freedoms.
The state performs a lot of other functions, but we think that should be the primary one.
And just because children are not adults, just because they don't hit this arbitrary line of being eighteen years old, this doesn't mean that those people aren't still free agents and don't still exist under the same coercive state apparatus, still being constrained by almost all of the same laws and, oftentimes, more laws.
We think that given that that's the case, we think that the state is giving the children is giving the the adolescent an opportunity to go to high school.
It's providing for that adolescent.
But if that adolescent, with their parents' consent, wants to withdraw from that school, then we think that is a totally valid decision.
And that's one thing that is important about parental consent over a, essentially, ban over leaving high school, and it's that parents will always be more informed about what is best for their child's well-being.
They'll always be more informed about what the child is actually going to gain from either staying or leaving high school in a way that the state can never be informed, because the state doesn't live with the child.
It doesn't care for the child like a parent cares for the child.
It doesn't have a stake in the child in the same way that the parent has a stake in the child.
So we think it's clearly the case that parents have the ability to be a check on students that are just lazy, on kids that just want to get out and don't have any sort of a future or a plan for themselves in mind.
But high school, the skills that you actually learn in high school are not necessarily for everyone.
They're not necessarily something that every student needs to go through.
If you're, for example, in high school and you're learning a lot outside of high school, you're learning things like coding, you're learning things like web design, things that are marketable skills, that can already be profitable for you for things like video production.
These are types of things that allow you to market yourself to start a small business, things that are always in demand as far as something that can make you money in the real world.
And we think that if you're a child in that situation, maybe high school isn't right for you.
And maybe on top of that, you're picked on in school, and you're not you don't feel safe within that environment, and you just want to get out.
Yes, this idea of having a a high school diploma is romanticized.
This idea of being able to have graduated high school is great, but if you have marketable skills and if you are able to present yourself in a way to market yourself, we think there's no need for you to be successful and go to high school.
And for these reasons, high school should not be mandatory.