We should not introduce goal-line technology.
In this round we're going to go through the arguments presented by the government's side and explain why we don't think that they are realistic and why they don't justify goal-line technology and then we're going to explain some of the trade-offs that goal-line technology presents.
The first argument that the government team makes is that goal-line technology would make football more fair and that fans need to perceive the game is fair otherwise they're going to turn away from football and they're not going to be spending their money on it which is bad obviously for the sport as a whole.
But we just don't think that this is a major issue in the status quo and we think the government's side severely over-blows the impact of perceptions of unfairness in football.
In fact the government side even acknowledges this later in their speech when they say " well sports rigging isn't a big issue in football nor other sports " and that's exactly the case.
This just isn't a major issue in the status quo and because of that we don't think that this needs to be implemented for a perception of fairness.
They say that that the goal-line technology can objectively measure the accuracy of a goal better than refs but recognize that the vast majority of goals scored in a football game are obvious, they're incredibly clear, the ball goes into the back of the net, it clearly breaks the plane.
This would probably apply to less than one percent of goals that would be scored in football and because of that, we just don't think that this idea of objective measurement actually plays out in a in a particular perception of football being more fair.
Finally, they say that more fans will watch football if it's perceived as more fair.
A few responses to this: first, football viewership is already rising, it's already becoming more popular in places like china and the united states areas that have massive markets to tap into but haven't been particularly big into football in the past.
Secondly, we don't think that this minute change to how the game works is going to be a tipping point in whether or not someone starts watching football.
The the government team argues this a few times that this will create some sort of growth in viewership but if I'm a person that isn't already watching football, this change is not going to be the tipping point that decides whether or not I get into it.
It's this it's the personalities of the players, it's the performance on the pitch, it's those types of things the actual beauty of the game and the thrill of the competition that get someone to watch a sport not this minute change to the rules that affects a very limited amount of plays.
Their second argument is that this creates accountability for officials and that you need to prevent match fixing which is when they acknowledge that match fixing is not actually a big deal.
But recognize that even if match fixing were a big problem because the because of the fact that goals are almost always clear cut, we think that when match fixing actually occurs it occurs in the case of penalty calls rather than goal scoring itself and so if match fixing were to be a problem, we don't think that goal-line technology would actually address it in any sort of meaningful way because all the technology isn't going to overturn whether or not a red card get sent out.
The final argument they make is about international sporting norms in that there's an expectation of sport that it's fair and subjective.
It's really just a repetition of the first point.
So cross apply all of the arguments that I made already that this just isn't a major issue in the status quo, that this is a minute issue, but we also think that there's a an a degree of fun that is added to a fan base.
There's a degree of community that is added.
Even if a referee gets something wrong that brings the community of the sport, it allows them to rally around that, allows them to celebrate something or demonized something but it makes the community stronger and that's will ultimately what's keeps fans interested.
For these reasons, we should not introduce goal-line technology.