We should not tax remittances.
In this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think it would be unjust to tax remittances when payments are leaving the country.
So we think that it's important to recognize when remittances are occurring in the status quo because largely this is occurring for individuals that are in lower income levels who have families back home that are struggling in environments that are less protective, that are less robust, that are less developed than the environments that we're able to experience here at home.
When people talk about capital flight via remittances and they talk about the fact that money is leaving the country, they fail to represent the idea that this money is leaving the country to go to people that are far more in need of it, for where the dollar goes so much further than it does for the average person here in our developed countries.
And because of that we think it is crucial that we allow these things to occur and to occur in a robust way.
We think that taxing remittances means that less of that money that is desperately needed to be sent home to families of people that are working in our nations, we think that this is something that should not be done.
We think that it is unjust and it is greedy for us as a developed nation to take this money away when these people have earned it.
To tax them simply for giving money from one family member to another, something that we would not tax in any situation if it were between two citizens of america for example.
We think that that would be seen as incredibly unjust and we think that this action is unjust itself.
Now many would say and many would reply to that by saying that well this person is taking advantage of american resources, they're taking advantage of american infrastructure and jobs and they should have to pay their fair share.
But that already happens, these people that are living again for example in the united states working in the united states and sending money back home abroad, they still have to pay an income tax on that earning that they're earning here and they likely have to pay some sort of an income tax back home in their original country.
They also need to pay sales tax here, they need to pay for many other taxes that are associated with the cost of living in the united states, and because of that we think that these people are already in in in a robust way paying their fair share back to united states and they don't get the same sorts of protections and benefits that citizens of the united states do.
They don't get the robust social safety nets that we get, they don't get the types of medical and educational opportunities that we get, so we think that they're already paying a tremendous amount for the resources that they take up.
Finally, from an economic perspective, we think that this would actually turn away valuable labor.
If for example the united states were to tax remittances but other countries were not to follow, we think that this would create a situation in which jobs at other countries jobs in other countries and their businesses become far more attractive than the united states when you can when remittances when one of the basic ways of being able to feed your family of taking care of your family back home when they're being taxed in one place but not another we think that this creates a system in and system in which there is further incentive, there's greater incentive to send talented people people that could be used in american in american businesses sending them to other countries and making american business overall less productive.
For these reasons we should not tax remittances.