We should increase international volunteering.
In this round, we're going to with a pretty basic model.
We're going to say that we should send more people abroad, through organizations and programs such as the peace corps and habitat to habitat for humanity, to go to developing nations.
Specifically, we're gonna send people from developed nations such as the united states.
We think that these programs should consult with local leaders to come up with plans that help the community based on a combination of community needs and based on the resources that these organizations have.
So, our basic argument is that developing countries are in much greater need of volunteering than any developed nation is and because of this, we think that with those with those volunteers, people that likely would volunteer either domestically or abroad, those people should be much more should be at a much higher rate going abroad.
So, let's talk about that.
In developed countries like the united states, there's just less need for volunteering than there is abroad.
For example, united states has a much more robust welfare system than most developing countries do and therefore, the bare minimum quality of life that you can have in the united states is, as an average person, is much higher.
There's also many domestic charity organizations in developed countries as compared to countries that are abroad, which means that even through non-political actors, non-governmental organizations that are doing good on the ground, there're simply more of those in developed nations that can do this type of volunteer work and therefore, as any one person, your tradeoff should be sending you abroad.
There're also fewer people living in poverty and almost no one living in absolute poverty in developed nations as opposed to those in developing nations, which means not only are there fewer people that are simply poor, but they are dramatically fewer people that are living on less than one dollar a day and living in much worse conditions than even those that we consider to be living in poverty live in in developed nations.
Finally, most people have access to things like clean water and shelter regularly, the very basic proponents of what you need in order to live your life.
Those things generally exist in developed nations at a much higher rate and for much more people than they do in developing nations.
In comparison, most developing countries have areas that do not have any of those things that I've discussed, and in addition to multiple additional problems.
For example, there are fewer people with the necessary disposable income and wealth to dedicate their time to volunteering.
There are fewer people in the community that have their time for philanthropic work when they need to focus on feeding themselves, on clothing themselves, on taking care of their families.
There're simply fewer people with the affluence and the privilege to volunteer, like international people can from developed nations.
There are also fewer resources available in order to do things like build wealth and homes.
There's simply less financial resources available in developing nations than there are in developed nations, and one thing that more manpower can do when they volunteer and more international volunteering can do is you can bring more resources with you.
You have more people that are dedicating their time and their finances to do these things.
Finally, even if you do, even if these developing nations have all these extra things, manpower is still useful.
And if you team up with the community to come to a collective goal, that manpower can be incredibly useful.
There's also a few additional benefits to those that are going to volunteer and to culture more broadly.
For example, you build empathy across cultures and humanize those in other countries, which we think leads to more political advocacy to help those countries in the future, and you bring expertise from around the world together to solve these problems.
Simply put, we think that more developing nations need assistance than developed nations do.
If someone is volunteering in a developed nation, we think their manpower, their skills, their resources, would be far more beneficial in a developing nation and through international volunteering.
For these reasons, we should increase international volunteering.