We should not end the use of economic sanctions.
In this round we think it's important to recognize that just because sanctions are not used in all instances, just because the implementation of them could be better doesn't mean that they aren't a useful tool on the international stage in order to force change on murderous regimes.
So the I think the overall point of the government's side in this round especially through the extended illustration of the oil for food program with iraq is that dictators simply do not care about their people and are willing to go to extreme lengths in order to get what they want and to and to avoid the harms of sanctions on them.
But we think that recognize that the international realm has few abilities.
There's few actions you can take realistically in order to force change in regimes where change needs to be needs to happen in order for the long term good of the people to be to win out.
Given that this is the case, we think that economic sanctions are preferable to the realistic alternative such as just negotiating with no weight behind it, which we don't think will ever be effective in creating change, or full out strikes on the country whether it's war or whether it's small scale skirmishes which often harm people, harm bystanders at a similar if not greater level than sanctions while forcing the country to put their own citizens at risks.
The first argument that they make is that sanctions instrumentalize foreign people essentially by harming them as much as possible so that they rise up and go against their regime.
But there's a couple of other things that sanctions do that we think is important.
First, it weakens the ability for the regime to fight against an opposition that already exists.
If you put sanctions on a regime that doesn't allow them to get weapons imported, that doesn't allow them to get technology imported, that doesn't allow them to fuel up essentially to fight in opposition that usually already exists to a great degree, then we think that you also help that opposition in the long run.
Additionally, almost every law that you can really think of instrumentalizes people.
Every law that exists is a way of of insuring that people do not do something or do something in order to achieve a better end in the long run and whether that instrumentalization comes in the form of stopping people from using their property in the way they want or or harming them outright, we think that all law forces instrumentalization.
So this principled claim that the government makes that instrumentalizing people is always wrong, we think is incorrect.
In the long term, if this causes people to rise up, if it forces a regime change even if some people die in the short run, people are going to die under these regimes anyway.
So we think that in the long run you can save more lives by forcing that regime out.
The next argument they make is that elite targeting sanctions are ineffective.
We do think that these sanctions can be effective when they're used along with other forces with other forms of international action.
If you're cutting off access to banks bank accounts or luxury goods or the ability to travel, all of these things can chip away at a regime's worst actions and force them to make some sort of changes.
So and even if they are ineffective, they're still fine to do because these types of sanctions are never going to harm are are never going to harm the people on the ground.
So even if it's just a nuisance to dictators, we think that's better than taking no action at all.
The final argument that they make is that sanctions are used in arbitrary instances and that we target venezuela but not china even though china has more of a human rights abuse history than venezuela.
Regardless of whether we're targeting the worst people, we are still targeting instances in which bad actions are are occurring and are being done by leadership and we think acting in those instances is positive.
Whether or not we should use this in more instances is up for debate but whether or not the instances we're using it in are just, we think is clear.
For these reasons, we should not end the use of economic sanctions.