We should further exploit natural gas.
So, in this round, we're going to start by doing two things.
First, we want to give a kind of overview as to what the situation looks like now and secondly, what does this mean " further exploit "?
So, first, the overview.
We're doomed if we don't reverse climate change.
We are at a point at which it doesn't matter if we cut our emissions right now, because we've gone over a tipping point that will ensure that temperatures go up by more than four degrees celsius, that that weather will become more harsh, that seasons are going to change, and that polar ice caps are going to melt.
Now we need to advance our existing tech as much as possible, as quickly as possible, to find the technology that will reverse the damage that's already been done far more than we need to find the technology to actually prevent further damage.
This requires a whole lot of energy which is why we think we need to do more drilling for natural gas.
We need to do more hiring of businesses that do natural gas.
We need to lift restrictions on natural gas.
These are the types of things we're talking about.
Three big reasons: first, it's relatively clean.
Natural gas just burns cleaner than other types of fossil fuels.
It allows us to create an immense amount of energy with without creating as many emissions.
So even if you don't believe the overview that we're not at that tipping point yet, you have to recognize that we're at least getting close and once we get there, which is almost certainly likely if we're not already there, we're going to need to make these changes, but this is at least a comparative tradeoff.
It allows you to get the benefits of fossil fuels which is that there's a lot of natural gas available, it's relatively easy to to extract, the process is already down, all these types of things, without creating as much emission as other resources.
This is a good balance of need to advance as well as climate concerns.
The second reason is the economic bounty.
There are huge stashes of untapped natural gas and this has a potential to create a huge number of new jobs and businesses.
The oil boom that countries saw during their histories were booms that allowed those countries to become developed nations, that allowed them to become players on the world stage, to feed their citizens.
This is something that natural gas and further exploiting it can do once again.
This is especially useful as it creates a number of jobs for current low-skilled workers that are, in the status quo, massively underemployed and oftentimes unemployed altogether, which means that you're not just creating jobs that will go to people that are already well-off, but you're creating jobs and opening businesses that are going to help the least well-off in the long run.
Third, the free market.
We think that the role of the state is not to dictate societies' priorities.
What we mean by this is that climate change is a risk but getting as much energy as possible, doing it and creating jobs, are things that society might also want to value.
And so it's not the government's job to dictate what the market is going to value.
We think that there is a demand for natural gas and a number of people that want to fill positions in jobs for natural gas.
If this is what society wants, that is what should be allowed.
The government exist to protect personal freedoms.
When it comes to the market, we think that if people want to have these these services filled, if they want this business to exist, if people have chosen that climate change is not a top priority compared to economic growth, which we think has been demonstrated by the demand for natural gas, we think this is something that the country needs to respect.
For these reasons, we should further exploit natural gas.