We should end affirmative action.
So, when we're talking about ending affirmative action, we're talking about it in all spectrums of the way it comes.
There's affirmative action that can be required in hiring, especially on the federal and state level.
There's affirmative action that can come to getting people into higher education.
We're going to say: end it all.
End affirmative action in all stages.
We've two main arguments to support ending affirmative action.
The first is about why the state is built to build upon a system of equality of opportunity, not necessarily an equality of end points, and the second is that we think it degrades the accomplishments of people in the status quo who are said to have only being gotten to their position because they are either I'm a minority or some other subjected group who's getting benefits of affirmative action.
We think that's problematic, and we think it leads to more vitriol moving forward.
So, those two arguments.
First, on equality of opportunity.
We think the state exists primarily to uphold negative freedoms.
If the state were not to exist, if there was no state and we lived in a state of nature, we think the most fundamental thing that we would lose is our security, our freedom to behave in ways that we see fit, that are are that are an expression of our preferences.
And so the state exists to to create that apparatus in which all people can live, all people can express their liberty equally.
We think the goal of this is to provide equal opportunity, an equal starting point to all people to express their preferences and their freedoms.
But under that state, a state of equality of opportunity, we don't think that you're going to necessarily end up with similar end points.
We think, on the contrary, you're likely to end up with vastly different end points for vastly different people.
We think that affirmative action oversteps these types of ends.
Affirmative action is an ends-based system.
It prefers creating ends for some people that create the illusion of solvency and the illusion of an equality of opportunity.
We think that affirmative action is primarily a bandaid solution that attempts to solve for the inefficiencies of creating that equal starting point for people.
It recognizes that we don't have a state in the status quo where there's a quality of opportunity and therefore, instead of trying to solve that and trying instead of trying to create a system that actually provides an equal footing for all people, it creates some better ends for a few people by creating arbitrary distinctions and elevating the few, when it leaves the vast majority from those same groups of people behind.
So, secondly, we think it degrades the the accomplishments of minorities, and it degrades the accomplishments of people that gain benefits of affirmative action.
Recognize that in the status quo, affirmative action is incredibly politically volatile.
It gives the excuse to people who are of the opinion that minorities didn't earn what they had coming to them, that this is the case and that they only gain those benefits because the government chose to help them.
This plays off the absolute worst stereotypes that we have in our society about people that gain the benefits of affirmative action.
In those minds of the people that already hold those opinions, it dramatically entrenches those views and says that not only are these people getting special benefit, but they're getting special benefit at the cost of my own.
This means that it increases the anger and resentment that exists between these communities, again, only to serve as a bandaid solution, because we couldn't actually take the steps to create a system where there's equal opportunity for all.
We think this dramatically decreases the political will to take those steps that actually solve for the most people when there's resentment and anger between these groups.
And it's founded upon the reality that certain groups were given special benefits and special treatment because of who they were and how they were born.
We think that this makes it much less likely that you can have popular popular solutions and popular popular approval for solutions like increasing funding for school systems amongst disenfranchised groups, for housing amongst disenfranchised groups, to giving to those that are actually suffering the benefits they need to create a better foundation for themselves.
For these reasons, we should end affirmative action.