Tattoos should be banned.
So quickly a model for this motion.
We think that this would be banned at the state level or any sort of federal level by the government and that the punishment for violating this ban would probably be something in terms of a lite fine or lite community service.
We don't think that this needs to be punished to a dramatic degree and it would be proportional a proportional punishment would be something like a fine.
Okay so regardless of enforcement, why do we think tattoos should be banned?
Firstly, because you are a future you're the future person you will become is distinct from your current person.
So let's walk through this.
We think that the unified experience of identity in consciousness is simply an illusion.
The person that you're composed of the person that you are is composed of a few things your preferences, your mores and your beliefs at any given moment.
They compose your consciousness and create an idea of yourself.
When you think of what your identity is, you refer to these things, these preferences, when determining what that identity is and reflecting on yourself.
All of these component parts are fluid.
They change based on one's experiences that shape the component parts and one's environment.
All these things are subject to change.
While these things appear to be continuous on very small second to second scales, it becomes much more obvious over long periods of time that your identity and therefore yourself has changed dramatically.
For example, the person that I was as a two-year-old the preferences I held, the moral beliefs I had in my beliefs are nothing like the preferences I hold as a twenty-year-old.
While the amount of while the consciousness of my conscious experience seems to be continuous between that person that I was as a two-year-old and the person that I was as a twenty-year-old there's no continuation of those preferences and for all purposes for all meaningful purposes I'm a wholly distinct human being that as a twenty-year-old from who I was as a two-year-old and I wouldn't want the preferences or beliefs of myself as a two-year-old to bind me as a twenty-year-old.
Tattoos while yes they can be removed, are for the most part a permanent blemish on one's body.
They are something that generally are difficult to remove and many people don't have access to this type of removal and they can scar a person if the meaning behind them changes or the person themselves simply change to the point of regretting the decision.
We would not allow a distinct person to decide for me that I should have a tattoo even if our beliefs and identities are similar, even if the opinions that that person holds near the the opinions and beliefs that I hold exactly.
Because we would say that that is coercive for another unique person to make a decision for me with a long term impact.
Because of that long term impact we should not allow people to make that decision for their future selves because as I've explained that future self is for all intents and purposes and entirely distinct individual and should not held to the decisions of their past self.
Secondly, we think that the government should regulate obscenity.
We think that tattoos themselves are obscene and should be banned generally.
We think they're a blemish on the human form, that nature shaped that form through evolution and that form should be celebrated by each person rather than morphed based on these fleeting desires that you held at one point in your life.
We think tattoos are also associated with a culture that opposes social mores in the status quo.
They used as a marker to society as a whole that those mores are bad and people bask in the obscenity of their tattoos.
We think the government exists as a conglomeration of the body politic to protect and uphold society and tattoos undermine this.
We think thus the government has the power and the obligation to ban this obscene material, to ban people from getting tattoos and to make this type of regulation.
In addition to the fact that the future self is entirely distinct from the present self, the government needs to act to uphold these social mores.
For these reasons, tattoos should be banned.