We should not abandon online dating services.
In this round, we're gonna make two arguments about why we think online dating services are useful for people that want to find romantic relationships, especially in today's day and age.
So, the first argument we're going to make is that these are effective tools for finding relationships.
So we think, first, it's important to define what that standard actually is, because the standard is not the standard for success is not compared to a one hundred percent success rate, that all people on online dating services are able to find a connection, because this simply doesn't exist through any traditional means.
There's no one hundred percent foolproof way of finding a romantic partner that you want to be with and that wants to be with you.
It's just not something that's available in our world.
Most relationships fail, and many people get rejected in any normal way.
So we think what what is an essentially effective rate, a successful rate, is something allows most people that put time and effort into these services.
Into trying to make a connection, and are able to put out personal sacrifices in order to make relationships work, that for those people it's able to be successful.
So why for those people does it work?
We think that online dating services do much of the work in finding a partner to make it easier to actually begin a relationship.
So, online dating services use exams about personal interest, personality, life plans, and moral beliefs in order to find people that are broadly compatible with you.
And, yes, compatibility is something that varies from person to person, but that's why you allow to have exams that are across multiple spectrums of what people may be interested in.
It also aggregates a large amount of people in order to expand the net beyond the normally small pool of people in one's immediate social circles.
You just cast a wider net when you use online dating services because you're not constrained to those people that you already know.
It also allows you to converse with many different potential matches in order to get through that initial conversation, which is a period where generally you can tell whether or not there's even a chance of a romantic relationship working.
Finally, we think there's a low risk of harmful social outcomes in this online experience.
It allows people to be more open and outgoing without a real fear of rejection that comes across on these sites.
Yes, people probably still fear rejection, but it doesn't have the same social outcomes, for example, if you try to start a relationship with someone in your own social group and that does not work.
We think that given all these things, that there really is success for people who commit to using these services fully.
For these people, it promotes immense value, and we certainly don't think it's worth abandoning, given the success.
Secondly, we think it's difficult in it's difficult to find people through traditional means, so we think traditional means don't work in our changing world.
In today's day and age, there are very few environments for adults to meet each other outside of work and existing social circles from school or college, or something like that.
Those social circles are small, and there're often very few romantic prospects, especially if you've already known someone for a long period of time and there hasn't been that spark already.
We think, additionally, the social fallout from bad relationships or rejection makes dating in those networks risky.
You don't want to disrupt the balance of your existing social circles of your or of your work environment to a failed relationship or an awkward rejection.
We think that people often feel like they need to settle rather than actually finding someone that they deeply want to be with when they're forced to to use only traditional means of finding people that are around them.
And we think that you're more likely to find someone you're actually compatible with through online dating services because of that wider net.
We think additional social spheres like community and parent groups simply aren't geared for relationships and that trying to find a relationship in those groups often puts you in a strange position moving forward.
We think that, on balance, at the very least, online dating services are no worse than traditional means.
They don't provide higher expectations, but they often provide better success and an easier time for many people that are used to the technology involved in online dating.
For these reasons, we should not abandon online dating services.