We should not end mining.
In this round, we're going to make four main arguments.
The first is about our need for resources, the second is about economic freedom and why we should allow businesses to develop, the third is about how this mining creates jobs in rural and poor areas and, finally, we think there are alternatives to solve the problems that come with mining that don't require ending mining altogether.
So, firstly, the need for resources.
Recognize that in the status quo, we are a resource dependent world.
We require rare earth metals, we require iron and nickel and steel, and we need to mine in order to get those resources.
But we also need things like gold, and palladium, and platinum, and all these other rare earth metals, because these are the fundamental requirements in order to have the capacitors and to build the electronics that we currently take for granted.
If we were to end mining altogether, it would mean that we would be at a massive drought in these types of resources, and just doing things like recycling isn't going to make up for the fact that, in the future, more and more people are going to be craving these technologies, and more and more people are going to be blocked out from having these technologies, technologies that are world-changing, that are life-changing, that give you access to information at your fingertips and give you access to communicate with people around the globe to do business around the globe.
These are important technologies, and we think that ending mining is going to drastically inhibit our progress as a species and the progress of many developing nations around the world.
We simply think that it would be irresponsible to strip ourselves of the resources that we get from mining in the status quo.
Secondly, economic freedom.
We think that what the just state requires is to create a free system in order to is to create a free market.
The reason for this is that we think that people consent in to the state fundamentally to uphold their freedoms, to ensure that the freedoms that they otherwise wouldn't have in the state of nature are secured within the state.
And hand in hand with that is the freedom to participate in a free market, to undertake business ventures that are going to be beneficial to you and to your community.
And we think that ending mining altogether undermines that free market.
It makes it less free.
It makes it less easy for people to pursue the ends that they desire and, ultimately, it is an unjust use of state authority.
Thirdly, mining often takes place in much poorer areas.
The reason for this is that mining often requires you to be in mountainous regions.
These are regions that are often underdeveloped, that don't have many other economic prospects, and mining is one of the ways in which many towns are able to survive.
You can already see in rural america, in appalachia, that when mining operations go down, the quality of life drastically decreases in these areas and leads to things like heroin epidemics and mass unemployment, and it leads to poverty.
We think that ending mining only shoves these people further down into the gutter.
It makes their lives incredibly difficult, and we think that stripping these jobs right now is not what we need to do.
Finally, we think protection and regulation solves.
Many critics of mining say that mining causes pollution, that it's a dangerous job, that it's something that is unsafe for the workers.
But we think that there are are, first, existing regulations that largely solve for these things but, furthermore, we think that you can add regulations.
We think that when you're faced with a problem, the blunt force solution of just getting rid of it, of not wanting to deal with it, is often the worst solution and that when it comes to mining, regulation ensures that we will continue to get the resources we need, that people have the freedom to pursue economic ends that they desire, and that people in rural areas can maintain their jobs.
For these reasons, we should not end mining.