We should prohibit international adoption.
So, we think that in the status quo, for the most part, international adoption is mostly a means by which western individuals, western potential parents, are able to use are able to take advantage of orphan children, to fulfill a white savior complex that they have, that they view the rest of the world as needing their assistance, and that their ability to adopt a child, from somewhere outside of their own country, is going to be immensely helpful to that country, and to those people.
But we think the case couldn't be farther from the truth, and for these reasons, we think there are a few cases in which international adoption is simply incredibly harmful, and because of them we should prohibit it.
The first is that the status quo promotes human trafficking, and we think that that's incredibly problematic.
In the status quo, the hero complex of western adults leads to a very high demand of international children, because people think they're doing this good, this universal good, by helping these forgotten children, but the case is that there is little tracking of orphans in the status quo.
So, especially in developing countries, in which the orphan system, the system of tracking these children, of taking care of these children, that don't have parents, is scant, if at all existed.
And given that this is the case, it's easy for people to take advantage of children, that aren't homeless, that aren't orphans, that do already have families.
These children are often kidnapping, and taken from their homes, sometimes they're in areas in which violence is happening, and so their parents could be killed or injured in trying to kidnap these children.
There's a there's a wide variety of ways in which human trafficking intersects with international adoption, and because it increases demand for these children, it makes it more likely that these practices will occur.
We think that when you adopt these children, you only increase the trauma that they've already gone through of losing their parent, even if they aren't a victim of human trafficking, they've still lost their parent, they've still lost their connection to their culture, and now you're going to strip them from that even further, by taking them from their cultural home, and forcing them into a western state, in which you're likely going to make them embrace a western education system, a western social social structure, a western way of living, all of these things that are incredibly different from what the child is gone through.
And we think, you're only going to put them in a place, in which they have to relive the trauma of their cultural experience, of relive the trauma on a day to day basis, of being taken from that culture.
The second problem with international adoption is that, in the status quo, a huge portion of orphans are left, are left for themselves.
Western countries don't lack orphans.
We think they're a burden on the state, and that they're often forced to bad foster care systems, because of that.
Especially older children are very unlikely to be adopted after a certain age, which means that there are a huge amount of children, even if they're older, that are in western countries, that are at the homes of these people, that are in their neighborhoods, and aren't being taken care of.
They're being forced into foster homes, in which they bounce around from place to place, they can never put roots down, in the best case scenario, and in the worst case scenario, these homes can be abusive in a wide variety of ways.
And because of this, we think that there is a neglect, a trade off, when you allow international adoption, when you allow people to adopt from outside of their country.
It means that children, that aren't as desirable, that have been bouncing around for a long time, that are a little older, are much less likely to be adopted in the in a domestic state.
And what this means is that these children, which are part of your state, which you've an obligation to protect, have little opportunity of being adopted.
That creates a competition, that involves human trafficking in other countries, and leads to people being neglected, and not having a foundation, not having the family structure, that sets you up for support and success in the future.
Because international adoption leads to abuses, both of the children that are abandoned, and of the children that experience human trafficking, in the places in which western people want to adopt these children from, and it reinforces a horrible cycle of harm, both for both for domestic and international children, we think that it's clear, that we should prohibit international adoption.