Humanitarian aid should not be subsidized.
So we when we're talking about a subsidy for humanitarian aid, we're not talking about aid directly.
So this isn't a round about whether or not the government broadly should be giving humanitarian aid, but rather it's about funding private actors who do work in humanitarian aid doing giving subsidies to different charitable organizations or private organizations that do humanitarian aid work.
So we are going to talk specifically about why those organization should not receive any sort of a subsidy.
The first argument we want to make is that when you're subsidizing this organization you've less control over how the aid is going to be used than if you give aid directly.
So if we're talking about a system in which you have a finite amount of money and you have one of two options: you can either well I guess three options, you can either use that aid use that money for anything that isn't humanitarian aid but if we are going to give that for humanitarian good you can either as the state give that money directly.
You can have a program that the state runs that works with other countries and works in different areas in order to give that money out, or you can give that money to a corporation which then has some sort of carte blanche ability to use that money as they see fit.
Maybe you can give it to them with some sort of specifications, but at the point at which you're dictating such specific uses of the money it's probably preferable to just as the state use that money in a way that you see fit.
We think that if you're giving aid directly rather than giving it as a subsidy, you're more likely to be able to choose who that it is going to go towards.
You have a better understanding and a better oversight capacity for looking in directly to how that money is being spent.
You can do research on the ground and decide what you think is the best the best method of using that aid, and you don't have to choose between different organizations which means you don't have different organizations vying for some sort of government benefit which means that there's less money that's maybe getting kicked back into the government in order to get that aid, in order to get that subsidy, and we think it's simply preferable that if the state is going to give some sort of subsidy like this it should just act act and give humanitarian aid as it already does.
Additionally, we think that it is just a bad use of a subsidy.
When we're talking about subsidizing something we're talking about using public funds and tax money in order to pay for something and when we're talking about using public funds we think it's important that one of two things happen: either it goes toward some sort of a public good and when we say a public good we don't just mean oh it goes to people broadly but rather because your citizens are paying into that tax base, we think that a public good must be a good for the general public of your citizenry which this humanitarian aid subsidy certainly would not be doing.
Most humanitarian aid goes outside of the country.
We think that the vast the most likely outcome is that this subsidy ends up going to people outside of the state which means that it is a bad is a principally bad use of the subsidy.
The other problem is that it's not easily accessible by the general public.
So even if it's not going to a public good, you can give a subsidy if it's something that most people can access if they choose to do so.
But again, this isn't the case here.
You'd have to be some sort of private organization that does humanitarian aid to begin with, you need to have the organizational structure and the track record in order to get this type of a subsidy and again it's not actually going back into the pockets of the american people in some way, shape or form.
Because of that, we think that this is a poor use of taxpayer money.
It doesn't benefit the citizens in any meaningful way and if you're going to spend that money in a way that doesn't directly benefit a citizenry, well then you should just do it as direct humanitarian aid rather than as a subsidy.
For these reasons, humanitarian aid should not be subsidized.