We should introduce school vouchers.
We're gonna begin by setting up the model for this motion, then explain why we think that a school voucher program is preferable to the status quo.
So the way we're going to set up this voucher program is that we're going to make it a progressive system.
What we mean by this is that the amount of money that you would get from the voucher program would be dependent on the income of the parents of the children as well as the amount of children that these parents need to support.
So we think that for example, if you're a much poorer person the amount that your voucher would be willing to cover would be a higher percentage of any given school that you would want to go to whereas if you're incredibly well off the voucher would probably cover only a small percentage of any given school.
And we would also make the case that a parent should be free to choose amongst any number of certified schools but if a school isn't certified, we wouldn't allow these vouchers to be used to go to those schools.
And so certification, probably based on a percentage of students that pass like state and local testing and federal testing as well as making sure that teachers are certified etcetera, we think that existing systems already are in place to ensure that schools are certified and that public schools are functional.
Okay, so we think that in the status quo the current system is massively unequal.
The poorest children in our society are stuck in failing schools.
Schools that become worse and worse when rich kids and even middle class kids are sent by their parents to private schools because they don't want to fix the existing public school structure.
What this means is that public schools decrease in quality over time while those that are the worst off are the ones that are stuck in these public schools.
And what this means is that poor children and poor parents simply do not have the same ability to make free choices about where their children are going to go to school as richer and upper middle class parents are able to do with their children.
We think that this is incredibly unfair.
Education is one of the most important aspects of any child's upbringing.
An education sets up a child for their future in numerous ways and ensures that they can become educated and functional members of our society.
And a bad education can set a child back permanently in their life moving forward.
We think that in the status quo, poor people should not be priced out of going and getting a good public education or a good education for their children simply because of economic barriers.
And we think that school voucher programs essentially level the playing field to a dramatic extent.
We think additionally, that parents are much more capable of choosing which schools are right for their children than the government is.
The reason for this is that parents have an understanding of whether or not their child might be particular inclined to specialize in one field, whether or not a vocational school or some sort of specialized schooling would be better for their children than a public school, and have a much better understanding of whether or not their child is set up to succeed in a public school for any number of social or academic reasons that the government simply cannot check for.
We think that a school voucher program ensures that these parents have the ability to make decisions that are more informed than the government can without people being blocked out simply because of their economic their economic prosperity in the status quo.
For economic prosperity that was probably impacted by the despaired education quality that people received in the past which is due to failings that the government has made in the past.
We think that a school voucher program is much more likely to level the educational barrier that exists between economic demographics and is much more likely to allow that all students and all children can receive a quality education.
And for these reasons we should introduce school vouchers.