The blockade of the of the gaza strip should not be ended.
In this round, we're going to make one main argument but we think it's the most important in this debate, and that's that israel has a right to self-protection and the blockade of gaza does a much better job of ensuring the protection of its citizens than removing it would do.
All right.
So, we would say that, first and foremost, the state exists to protect its citizens.
The state is ultimately a body that derives power from its citizenry.
It exists to serve its citizenry, and it ultimately functions in order to protect its citizens.
People opt-in to the state in order to have their freedom protected because in the state of nature, there's no way to have those types of freedoms protected.
There's no way to ensure that you will have your rights upheld even though you have a much larger amount of freedom.
But, first and foremost, in order to exercise your freedom, in order to use your freedom and for the state to protect taht freedom, you ultimately have to have your body protected, your bodily autonomy needs to be upheld, and your life needs to be upheld.
The right to self-defense and the obligation of the state to that right to self-defense, we would say, overrides secondary obligations to people outside of one's borders.
The state is a unique actor because, unlike other actors, like individuals like you or I, where borders may not dictate the moral worth of another person, the role of the state is to ensure the protection of its own people.
It's to uphold the protections of its own people and because of that special role in society, the state ultimately needs to first consider its people and secondarily consider those outside of its borders.
And when we're talking about a an area like israel and a conflict that it has with palestine, it's not like this is an issue of giving the people of israel slightly better lives and, ultimately, dramatically harming the people in gaza.
It's actually a matter of life or death for people on both sides of the conflict and when you're making a decision-making calculus like that, you always need to side with your citizens.
So, why do we think that we think that israel has a reasonable evidence to believe that gaza presents a threats to its people.
First, there's simply a very, very long history of violence that exists between israel and gaza.
Secondarily, those that are in power in gaza, groups like hamas, say explicitly that it wants israel to be eradicated.
It's not open to having israel exist at all, and there's been very little diplomatic success over the over the last few decades in trying to bring these two sides closer together.
There's also been continued rocket launches from gaza, killing thousands of people each year in the state of israel.
We think the blockade serves to further israel's self-defense in two main ways: first, by having the blockade, it makes it less likely that weapons and other extremists will be able to enter gaza.
If you have a blockade on gaza, if you don't allow goods to get into gaza, it means that you can't also smuggle weapons and smuggle terrorists into the area.
And given the amount of of rocket launches and the amount of bombings that occur due to actions from gaza in the status quo, we think that lifting the blockade would almost certainly increase that a dramatic amount and severely harm the self-defense and the right to life of the people of israel but secondarily, making the people of gaza feel the pressure by having this blockade means they're more likely to turn on radicals in their ranks.
If they recognize that the fact that this blockade is happening is because radicals in gaza are harming the people of israel, are making their lives substantially worse, then we think the people of gaza are more likely to turn on them and are more likely to see diplomatic solutions with israel in the long run.
For these reasons, the blockade of the gaza strip should not be ended.