We should not nationalize electricity generation.
So in this road we're gonna make three main arguments about why allowing private businesses to continue to run local electricity generation is a preferable system to a nationalized one.
So first, let's just broadly talk about the benefits that arise from competition in private business.
So we think that the way that electricity generation would generally work is that there are that there are a variety of companies that exist within a local area or possibly within a state area that service similar areas and these people compete, these businesses compete for the business of locals and while it's certainly true that people need electricity in this modern day and age it's also not entirely difficult to produce electricity.
So as far as a business that you can start up it's something that is relatively easy to access.
The technology is relatively well known.
So there aren't dramatic barriers to entry and since there aren't dramatic barriers to entry what this means is that competition can truly arise.
As a business or as an individual I'm free to look around to the various providers in my area to choose the one that has the lowest cost, to choose the one that provides me with the best sustained service to ensure that if I do have a problem with one provider I can switch to another provider.
Where as a nationalized system, while it does mean that you have some control over the system in regards to for through the fact that you can vote and you can try and make it a ballot issue, but for the most part it doesn't give the same degree of freedom to either the individual that is purchasing the electricity or to the free corporations that can generate the electricity in an efficient manner and because those businesses have a bottom line that they care about, because they see direct returns from that bottom line, they're much more incentivized to provide high quality service than the state is.
The state has an incentive to provide bare minimum sufficient service so that you don't complain too much.
But in a competitive marketplace, businesses have to improve.
They have to provide higher quality than the bare minimum in order to maintain their business and that's the benefit that nationalization removes from.
We also think that you have a high incentive to have sustained performance because if you're an electric if you are in the business of electricity generation and there are long periods of time where you're generators just fail, where you aren't able to power locales that you've that you've been contracted to power you'd or homes that you've been contracted to power, that's that's something that is daunting.
That's something that can ruin a business even if it only happens one or two times.
You have an immense incentive in the status quo to ensure that you have sustained and high quality performance.
The final argument we want to make is that we think it's just a benefit to have a reduced role of government, to have a smaller government system.
We think that the government is an inherently unjust body.
It's a body that you cannot meaningfully consent to.
There's no system in which you can give that consent and even if you could, there's no way to revoke it from the individual laws that have been accrued over hundreds of years of government, of legal decisions, of all these things of society sculpting.
It's a system that you are largely forced into.
But in a free market system you do have the ability to give explicit and direct consent or to not give consent and to be and to revoke that consent when you see fit.
It's a system that is much more tailored to individual decision making than a system that has a large government entity that has a nationalized electricity agency and we think that in that regard, you have more freedom and more &amp;unclear on the individual level without a nationalized electric system and for these reasons, we should not nationalize electricity generation.