We should cancel the affordable care act.
So this is a fairly large act.
So we're going to be clear about what we mean by cancel the affordable care act.
There are two main things that need to be done.
First, ending the public exchanges and the public market places that were created by the affordable care act and secondly, reducing the odious regulations, the literally hundreds of regulations put in place on the on the the industries impacted by the affordable care act and insuring that insurance industries are able to facilitate a free and open market.
Okay two reasons why the ACA needs to be canceled.
The first is because this is a massive government overreach and the government just shouldn't be involved in insurance to begin with and the second is that these marketplaces and these systems are collapsing.
Alright, so on the government we would say that the government is by its nature massively coercive.
Because the government has the ability to to yield immense coercive power, the course of apparatus of the state and the use of force, the only legitimate use of force within the state's borders with very little mechanism for consent.
Yes there are proxies such as voting, but we don't give that consent is very strong compared to the massive regulatory capacities the government is capable of exerting.
Because of this, the priority of the government should be to maximize liberty and to maximize personal freedoms.
This is a world in which people are able to flourish at their utmost capacity in a world in which most people would consent to such a state if they could.
The ACA inhibits this goal in a number of ways.
First it goes extensively beyond what the constitution itself it's the constitution itself says.
There's nothing about insurance.
There's nothing about healthcare regulation.
There's nothing about these marketplaces and it violates the explicit rules set by the state itself.
Yes, there's a supreme court ruling that was placed on this but we don't think that that supreme court ruling is binding especially given that the decision was five four and that four of the best legal scholars in the world at least constitutional scholars believe that it was unconstitutional.
Secondly, it forces individuals to pay for insurance.
It robs them of their hard earned money and it takes important life decisions out of their hands and out of their discretion.
Which is another way in which the liberty is stolen from people in these instances and finally, businesses are forced into hefty regulations.
It makes the product more expensive for people.
It makes those markets less free.
It inhibits what insurance industries and insurance agencies are able to offer and it takes away potential revenue and potential jobs within this industry.
All of these are ways that it may sound petty to say oh these large multi-million dollar industries shouldn't have to face these regulations, but we think that a just state is one in which the free market is able to act and people are able to choose whatever type of insurance they want to choose or no insurance at all.
This makes that impossible.
We think that this is an incredible overreach by what the government was created to do and because of that principally, should not be allowed to happen but on top of that, the ACA is failing in a number of ways.
Obamacare as a system just is not working.
The marketplaces are drying up and there are few providers in many regions but people are still required to pay for insurance or pay fines that come with not having insurance even when these marketplaces only have maybe one insurer for an entire region.
The costs of medical care are also going up both co-pay costs and deductible costs are going up which means at the same time as you're forcing people to have insurance you're also forcing people who would have had insurance anyway to pay more and more and there's also a potential for a death spiral because of these regulations that could wipe out even the thriving parts of the insurance marketplace because so many people are being forced to take insurance and these insurance agencies are being forced to take on people that they cannot afford to insure.
All of this means that at the end of the day, insurance quality for everyone has declined.
Individual freedom and personal choice has declined for everyone and the ACA continues to be an over-reach of what the government was created to do.
For these reasons, we should cancel the affordable care act.