Boarding schools should not be abolished.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think boarding schools serve a useful purpose in our modern society.
The first argument we're gonna make is about parental choice.
We think that education is one of the most crucial things for a child's future success.
The educational path that one starts down in early childhood and through their teenage years sets them up with the opportunities that they will have available to them in the future and quality education is one of the largest predictors of future success for children.
Not all children learn in the same ways.
Certain structures and methods work better for certain children which is why in countries where you have more specialized paths such as countries like germany that have many options for how a child can have their education especially through their teenage years, you get a higher productivity from those people as they age into adulthood.
We think that parents know their children best not just because they spend the most time with them, but because they're the most acutely aware of what those child's hopes and dreams are and what their child's potential is and it's certainly the case that they have special information that the government simply will not ever have and so when it comes to legislating for education, we think that parents are ultimately the people that are the best individuals and the best actor for making decisions about what the child's education should be.
We think that parents also have a special tie to their children.
There's an obvious bond that exists between most parent and child in which a parent would give their life for their child, they would do anything for their child and they want their child to succeed because they care so deeply to that child.
They're emotionally invested to the point where they're most interested in their well being and while the government may be interested in the population's well being in the sense of the government wants you know our economy to thrive and wants people generally to be happy, these parents are directly tied to this one person.
We think that you shouldn't abolish boarding schools because boarding schools let parents have more choices at their disposal so they can tailor those choices to their children.
Certainly most parents are not going to choose to send their children to boarding school but in some instances, parents will want to make that decision and because they're not only the most informed, but the ones that most care about that child's well being we think it's likely more likely than not going to be an appropriate decision and something that the government shouldn't just legislate away.
So let's talk about actual benefits for education that boarding schools produce.
We think that boarding schools can often isolate children from distraction.
In many instances children grow up in environments in which education simply is not lofted by their communities, it's not something that is stressed within their communities and sometimes children just need to be let released from that community and put into a different environment in order to learn.
It can also allow them to form very close bonds with their teachers and their fellow students cause those are the people that they're around all the time.
It means that children are more accountable to their teachers because they can't just go home to their parents each night, it means that children need to get along with their fellow students because they need to live with those people, and it also creates a mental space for learning that's distinct from the home.
We think that creating special spheres of interaction, like a boarding school, in which all of your activities are centered around education, improving yourself, and learning, we think that this is a good sphere for a child to grow up in especially if they're being sent away from their parents because their previous education system didn't work for them.
And finally some children simply need better behavior to be taught to them and need to be sent out of the environment in which they've previously demonstrated bad behavior.
Many boarding schools allow for this and things like military academies can ensure that children learn structure, they learn they learn how to behave properly, and they learn how to go about their business in a productive way.
For these reasons, boarding schools should not be abolished.