We should not end the use of public housing.
In this round were going to make one basic argument about why we shouldn't end public housing and the crux of that argument is that we believe that housing is a fundamental right and that the government has an obligation to fulfill people's basic and fundamental rights.
So first let's lay out why public housing is so crucial in the status quo.
Recognize that millions of people in the united states depend on low cost, subsidized, public housing in order to be able to live their lives in any sort of meaningful way.
These are people that are working often in urban areas that have low paying jobs, that don't have a lot of that don't have any property of their own, they don't have a lot of assets and people in these public housing don't have many other places to turn.
It's not like people just choose to live in public housing because they want to be freeloaders.
Recognize that the state of public housing in the united states is not particularly pleasant.
It's not something that most people most people when they have the means to do so leave public housing.
So we're talking about people who fundamentally do not have to the access to this housing in another feasible way which means that if we were to suddenly end the use of public housing, the homeless population would increase by a dramatic amount, it would mean more people would be destitute, more people would have no shelter and this is clearly something that is a massive harm on personal well-being and personal rights.
It means that you no longer have a place, a shelter of your own and we think that this is one of the very fundamental parts of human society.
So why do we think the government should guarantee basic needs?
Well firstly, we think that the government is equally responsible for the well-being of all of all of its citizens.
The government is a collective as a representative body of the total populace, we believe should strive to ensure basic needs are met for its citizens and we don't think this is an incredibly controversial claim.
We have many many structures that are in place across most developed nations to ensure basic security and social well-being for the vast majority of citizens.
Even in the united states a place that doesn't have as much as much liberal policies as in regards to a social safety net as other areas, we still have robust social safety nets and securities for our citizens and because of that, we think that it is it is not only principally good to protect people but it's also something that we widely we widely accept and expect as a norm from our state and because of that, we think that all people should be guaranteed these very basic rights and recognize that many of these people didn't just choose to be in the lower class.
They didn't choose to live in public housing.
They were often born into situations of poverty, tried to escape those situations of poverty but found an environment that was unwelcoming to them and and unsupportive of them whether it be the fact that many of the people living in public housing are racial minorities and that we have historically as a country been oppressive to those racial minorities, did not allow them to accumulate property, did not allow them to have equal opportunities and to this day still do not treat them in equal manner to others within our state and because of this, we think we have an obligation to ensure these basic protections for these people to fight against the lottery of birth and to ensure that all citizens, all american citizens, have their very basic needs met.
For these reasons, we should not end the use of public housing.