We should adopt multiculturalism.
When we're talking about multiculturalism what we mean is that we should have a state that accepts many different cultures and the living side by side of these cultures.
These cultures don't necessarily need to diffuse within each other or blend in any meaningful way but we think that multiculturalism means that cultures of different backgrounds, of different nationalities, of different political ideologies, are able to live side by side within society.
We think that there are two main reasons that this should be the case.
The first is that we believe it is simply in the nature of a just state to allow for multiculturalism to arise and second, we think there are numerous social benefits that arise from a from a multicultural society.
So firstly on the just state.
We would say that the state is a fundamentally coercive actor and this is because the state is not able to gain meaningful consent from the people that it governs.
There's no way for me as a citizen of the state to go and give my tacit consent and if I were to not consent to a state, there's no way for me to opt out of the state apparatus altogether.
It's very difficult to move and even if I were to move there's no way for me to just move out of state control altogether.
So no matter what, the state has some degree of coercion.
The state makes up for that by and becomes just by allowing for individual liberty in individual freedom.
The nature of allowing for individual liberty is that laws are based upon limiting third party harms and allowing the populace to flourish.
It means that you create laws to ensure that you maximize the whole societal level of freedom.
So you create laws such as laws against murder, because to undertake that act as an act of your individual liberty, restricts the individual liberty of other peoples that you are doing harm upon.
That is what's creating the third party harm.
We think that the extension of that is to allow for all cultures to freely flourish.
To defend one culture over another, to defend one moral system over another in regards to things that don't have to do with direct third parties harms, we think is the state overstepping its bounds and exceeding what it means to be a just state.
By by defining one culture as the primary culture and holding it up you lower the ability of other people to express their individual their individual freedom, to express their personal beliefs, to take part in the culture that they most closely associate with and in doing so you create a less just state overall.
So we think that if the state is to be just, it must be multicultural.
So secondly, on social benefits outside of the philosophical ideas of a just state.
We think that multiculturalism does a few things.
Firstly, it brings new ideas into largely model cultural states and refreshes the marketplace of ideas and creates new ideas, new ways of looking at the world within our public discourse, new things that we may want to choose to value, and new ideas of how we should address certain problems by bringing new historical perspectives.
This is important because the current system in many western states is stagnant and it's become rather hostile between existing ideas creating partisan ideologies and creating disputes that we think new ideas a multicultural approach could help to solve.
Secondly, contact theory.
Contact theory is the idea that if you are able to interact with the people that you perceive as the other, to interact with those that you otherwise wouldn't perceive as human beings but only learned of through stereotypes and third party accounts, if you're able to interact with those people as human beings you're able to see them as fully fleshed out persons and come to understand them as more similar to you than dissimilar to you.
What this means we think is that when you create a multicultural society you're more likely to create individuals within that society that are tolerant of other beliefs, that are more likely to be kind hearted in their approach towards other states and towards other people's and we think that you create a more hospitable society for all members that live within that society.
We think you get better community relations when people are more tolerant of each other and a more open society that allows for ideas to freely flow between between communities and we think that this is a society that is allowed to flourish the most.
For these reasons, we should adopt multiculturalism.