We should not increased government regulation.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we don't need further government regulation.
First, let's talk about how we need to start enforcing existing regulations.
In the status quo, there are a number thousands of regulations that are applied to different business sectors, to different operations that exist throughout the country, and in these situations, we think that the status quo has far too many loopholes.
There are too many opportunities for people to exploit the regulations that currently exist that essentially strip those regulations of their teeth.
So, we think that there are two main problems that mostly come from a lack of oversight.
First, most of the regulatory bodies that we have in the status quo are vastly underfunded, whether this is because of a lack of political will or because of posturing or because politicians want to seek the benefit of businesses in their in their states and in their regions, because those people are the ones that are donating to their campaigns, there's a number of reasons for this, but it's undeniable that there's a lack of funding that exists in the status quo.
And with that lack of funding comes a lack of employees to actually do the practice of regulation.
For example, in the united states, there are a number of regulatory bodies that exist to inspect infrastructure on a regular basis but that infrastructure regulation, that that process of oversight, is incredibly flawed because there simply aren't enough there aren't enough employees of these regulatory bodies to actually go out and do things like do inspections of dams, and of roads, and of bridges, and these are problems that exist in the status quo.
And it's not a problem of a lack of regulation that's causing those harms, but rather it's a problem of funding.
We think people should be that people, businesses, municipalities are already prepared to deal with existing regulations.
They already know about those regulations and, generally, have to take some sort of steps to account for them because if there is some sort of an inspection, they need to be able to pass that inspection.
So there's no additional burden required on those businesses.
So we think that existing regulation likely solves for the worst abuses.
There are bare bones restrictions and regulations in place that prevent things like abuse from an employer and prevent things like dams being built that are just not structurally integral, but we think that additional regulation is likely to be onerous, and that's our second point.
It's hard to tell what what further regulation will accomplish given the first point: that we just need to put more money into existing regulation rather than putting more regulations forward.
But we do know it'll harm business.
We see this time and time again.
When you force businesses, for example, to pay their employees more or to give their employees more benefits, in order to account for these additional costs, layoffs almost certainly happen.
It also makes the business climate in any given region more hostile and forces these businesses to change their production processes, to change how they go about constructing their parts or how they go about running their businesses.
We think this is likely just going to lead to more flight overseas of these businesses, especially in unskilled labor markets, because there are a number of burgeoning economies that don't have these sort of restrictive regulations on business.
And, yes, these restrictive regulations may lead to things like higher worker pay and better worker benefits, but it doesn't matter if those workers aren't actually going to be employed, if those jobs are going to be moving overseas.
And given that existing regulation ensures that the worst abuses won't occur, we think it's preferable to keep those jobs in the domestic area, to keep those jobs in country, rather than to forcing businesses going overseas to make up for the loss of revenue.
For these reasons, we should not increase government regulation.