Homebirth should not be banned.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why homebirth shouldn't be banned.
The first is why this ban would be an unjust ban, and the second is about the benefits of home birth and why it does, probably in many cases, more good than harm.
Alright.
So, first, on the ban itself.
We would say that fundamentally, states are unjust.
This is because states are not able to aggregate consent before they pass and enforce laws that affect the that affect the ability of real people to do what they would like to do in their life.
We think that in order for the state to be just, they need to make laws that people would consent to had they had the ability to consent.
And we think that what this ultimately means is making laws that maximize freedom.
In order for people to consent out of the state of nature, out of the state in which they have the maximal amount of freedom to do what they wish, we think they obviously would choose to give up some safety, but they still want to maximize freedom, maximize the amount of freedom they can get in that tradeoff, and that's why these laws are so essential.
So why why, in some instances, do we think that bans are okay?
One of those instances in which is where there's an asymmetry of information, where the government has specialized information that people simply cannot access or if they can access, they cannot internalize it.
The problem is that this just isn't the case here.
Birth and home birth are something that have been gone going on for thousands of years, for most of human history, and people have being able to use homebirth in order to give birth perfectly fine up to this point in human history.
So we don't think that there's some sort of deficiency of knowledge that prevents people from being able to give birth safely at home.
The other reason we might ban something is because there's a necessary third-party harm that comes from that thing.
We don't think that's the case here either.
Some may fear for the baby, for the health of the baby if they don't get the proper care of a hospital.
But, firstly, most of the time, this type of care is not necessary.
Most of the time, a natural birth that goes as expected doesn't require the assistance of some sort of specialized medical care or some sort of specialized doctor.
And if you do think that that is the case, you can legislate to have some sort of regulation, require to have a nurse present or someone else who's qualified to to oversee a home birth, but that doesn't mean you need to ban homebirth altogether.
So that being said, what are the benefits of home birth?
We think that there are a few.
First, we think that being able to give birth at home is something that can be incredibly comfortable for a mother.
When you're at a time that is both incredibly stressful, because you're literally giving birth to a child, they're going to need to care for for the next twenty years of your life, and incredibly painful, we think that peace of mind that can come from home is an invaluable part of giving birth and can actually make the birthing process go smoother.
We also think that because birth can last multiple days, one woman can be in labor for an incredibly long period of time, we think that it is better for their mental health and for their well-being that they aren't in the hospital for this entire time.
And finally, recognize that giving birth in a hospital is incredibly expensive.
It costs an immense amount of money between just having a hospital room to having a doctor, having a set of nurses, having all the equipment that takes up giving birth.
All these things cost thousands and thousands of dollars, and we think that many people simply cannot access that level of medical care.
We think that in those instances, it would be preferable to let people give birth at home, to not force them to go through this immense immensely expensive process in order to do something that they are perfectly capable of doing in their home with the oversight of a nurse.
We don't think that you should legislate away an option that is the only option that is accessible for many families, and because of this, homebirth should not be banned.