We should privatize postal services.
In the status quo, our current public postal services are a massive waste of government money.
Maybe when they first arose, certainly when they first arose, they were an incredibly useful tool for people to have access to.
It was incredibly useful for spreading information.
It was one of the only ways of spreading information and transporting goods between private individuals.
But now we have systems of other shipping services that are able to outcompete the US postal service and other public postal services and are simply more popular.
If you're the average individual, you're probably more likely to go to a shipping giant like fedex or UPS than you are the US postal service.
We think that you can have a short-term federal contract to run the US postal system and in the long run, you can assess the need for the USPS altogether and potentially transition away from having any sort of public spending on postal services.
So, first, we think that privatization incentivizes removing waste.
In the status quo, there are a number of postal hubs, a number of post offices in which very little mail is actually delivered, in which the vast majority of delivery that is done from house to house is sending spam through the mail from companies that are trying to advertise.
We think that when you have competition for these contracts, for these federal contracts, people compete in a way the way that people compete for those contracts is by offering lower pricing.
It's by coming up with a system in which they can do which in which they can do more for less money.
It's and this is how they outcompete other firms.
As private entities, you're also just more willing to make hard decisions like layoffs, because public backlash is less direct.
It's less impactful.
If you're a congressperson voting on whether or not we're going to cut spending for the US PS, well, if you have a major postal hub in your district, you're not going to vote against that because it means your your constituents are going to be laid off.
But if you're a private business, you while you may care about the workers that you have, you're more concerned with the bottom line, and public backlash is not going to have as large of an impact on your actual standing within a company, within the firm.
We also think that there's wide-scale public postal services, that wide-scale public postal services are largely unnecessary.
Firstly, with the rise of the internet in the past two decades, sending letters, actual letters, over the mail, like communicating with an individual through the mail, has become immensely obsolete.
The telephone already made this mostly obsolete but, nowadays, if you want to get in touch with a person, no one thinks to use the postal service.
No one thinks to send a letter.
The only time you send a letter to someone might be if you're sending a birthday card or a christmas card or something like that, but no one actually tries to communicate anymore via the mail.
There's also the rise of other carriers, as I mentioned earlier.
Carriers like US- like UPS and fedex are able to do the same types of shipments in the same time scales for less money.
There's also a rise of private delivery by business.
So companies like amazon do their own delivery nowadays, which means a huge bulk of traffic that could otherwise be going to the postal service is being done privately by thes firms.
So many many operators, many businesses don't need postal services at all.
And finally, we think there's a large potential use of the gig economy to deliver mail locally.
If you can have an a system like uber or lyft in which people essentially have a taxi system that's run through the gig economy, we don't understand why mail delivery can't function in the same way.
For these reasons, we should privatize postal services.