We should not subsidize condoms.
So, in this round, we're gonna make two broad arguments about why we shouldn't subsidize condoms.
The first is about why the government just simply should not be involved in citizen sexuality, and the second is about why the market already solves and regularly provides condoms to people that need them at relatively inexpensive prices.
All right.
So on the first point: we think that sexuality, human sexuality, is both an incredibly personal act and something that is incredibly controversial among citizens of the state.
No matter what state you're in, there are people that are conservative when it comes to their religious and sexual mores and that there are many people that entirely disagree and have strong moral or religious convictions that go against things like extramarital sex, and even the use of contraceptive generally.
These make up large portions of of populations, especially in conservative states conservative states and conservative nations.
We think that the government spends people's tax money in order to provide the subsidy.
So if we were to subsidize condoms, it's essentially spending the money that the people have given to the state, which means that the government is using people's money which they don't voluntarily give.
I can't choose not to give my taxes to the state if I don't believe that what the state is doing just if of if I have a strong religious or moral conviction against what the state is doing.
And furthermore, they're they're using this the people's money, tax money, for a nonessential expense.
So, this we think there's a difference between spending money on something that is morally controversial, like war, because it's something that is necessary for our collective defense.
There's nothing necessary about providing a a subsidy to condoms though.
There's no immense underlying purpose of the state that subsidizing condoms fulfills, like subsidizing war, subsidizing national security fulfills the state's obligation to protect its citizens.
We think that government should behave in limited ways and act in the way that the majority believe and follow aggregate preferences.
So given that this is the case, we think that this is simply a topic and a subsidy too controversial to do in a just way.
Secondly, why the market solves.
We think that condoms are already fairly inexpensive because there is incredibly high demand, incredibly low production cost for condoms.
We think that the subsidy will likely result in one of two things: either prices stay the same, in which case you don't accomplish the goal of the subsidy, or they go up, because people can already afford to pay this price.
So when you get the subsidy when you subsidize people and give them some sort of tax refund or something to buy condoms, people can already add that subsidy on top on top of what they're already paying for condoms.
So it allows the industry to raise prices.
Condoms could also are already subsidized additionally through many private actors such as universities and nonprofit.
So there's little demand for lower-priced condoms in many areas where these actors already exist.
This is especially true in urban areas with high poverty rates, because there are already tons of nonprofits that act in these areas to try and ensure safe sex and safe sex practices.
Additionally, we think that subsidies are a fungible use of public resources so, given that given that you're spending public money on this thing, we think that in order to spend that money, you need to have a legitimate use that's going to help a large body of people.
We think that we think what we've shown is that people that need condoms generally can afford to get them already, and so we should use this money on something that has a broader impact, because these are fungible resources.
You can spend it on more than one thing, and we think that you can find less controversial things that still need more funding, for example, infrastructure projects to help expand economic productivity for the state, education, especially in children's education, even in areas where there are people that are are are impoverished that the subsidy may otherwise help or proponents of the subsidy would claim would otherwise help.
We think that these are better uses, and there are far more other uses that are better than subsidizing condoms, given what we've explained: that to do this would be to do something that goes against the aggregate preferences of many in the state and that it does something that the market already solves for.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize condoms.