We should not introduce recall elections.
In this round I'm gonna make three main arguments about why we think recall elections are not a positive for our democracy.
The first is that we think that there needs to be a long-term view on governance.
What recall elections allow you to do is to say that after six months, a year of someone being in office that their plans haven't come to fruition, that their promises haven't been kept and therefore you're going to kick them out of office but think of how government actually works.
The process of governance and of policy making is an incredibly slow process.
It's a process that requires a lot of compromise.
It's a process that requires actual detailed investigation into how your policies are going to impact the people that you're trying to impact and you can you can spread principled ideas and still need to take a lot of time to figure out how you're going to implement those those principles in real concrete action.
We think that recall elections set up a system in which people ultimately fear for their job security and that it means that people are less likely to be able to get real governance done, real policy making done.
The reason for this is that they need to cater to short-term demands which means they cut corners in the way they make policy.
It means that they cater to small superficial things that they can change without actually really digging in to the process of making policy and we think that the people once they give someone the opportunity to govern shouldn't just be removed simply because they haven't fulfilled all of their promises in a short period of time.
When people make campaign promises, when people make plans they plan with that full scope of time in mind and they plan knowing that many of those things are going to be difficult to accomplish and because of that we think it is necessary not to take a short-term view but rather let governance play out and take a long-term view.
At the very worst, you can you can remove someone from office through the same election process that put them in place.
Secondly, recall elections are subject to small groups of detractors.
Many times in which people actually face recall elections, it's because there are small groups of people that are incredibly irate about what this person is doing.
That there are small groups of detractors that are incredibly well-funded or incredibly well-fueled and they go out there and they're able to convince other people who are likely on the fence, who don't actually have this hatred or anger towards an elected official and it allows these small groups of people to take the reins of our democratic system.
Maybe this could be ten percent of the voting population but when that ten percent is loud and vocal and goes out and convinces other people that this person must be removed, this person who otherwise could have done a fine job in office will be booted out of office because these small people took over.
Democracy should not be about small small irate groups but rather about the general consensus.
And finally, we think it's important to recognize that there are methods that already exist for removing someone who's done unethical actions.
If someone has done something that is actually illegal, one, they're very likely to step down because of political pressure and two, they could be arrested.
Like they could be forcibly removed from their office.
But even if they haven't done something illegal, we've seen that ethics violations have taken down a number of elected officials just in the past couple of years.
It's important to recognize that when we're talking about recall elections we're not talking about removing people from office who have done things that are unethical, that have done things that are absolutely wrong but they're rather trying to do their best and they're doing their job in a way that people may not agree with but they're still acting within normal political boundaries and they're still acting on the promise that was made by the voters that they would have the opportunity to lead, they would the be they would have the opportunity to see their policy through and recall elections remove all of that.
For these reasons, we should not introduce recall elections.