We should end the use of economic sanctions.
So, in this model, we're talking about one state or a group of states sanctioning another state, and these sanctions can take a number of forms.
We're going to get into those during the round or during the speech, but we think these generally come to things like boycotts or embargoes on certain states preventing goods from being imported or exported, withdrawing financial aid, etcetera.
All right.
So the first reason that we think sanctions should be abandoned is that they almost always have the most effect on innocent people who are the least well-off, people that don't hold the keys to power in the state, people that didn't choose whatever policy the sanction is existing in order to stop, any of these things.
They're just innocent, everyday people.
Sanctions ultimately get passed on to the people of the country.
Nations that are the subject of sanctions have often violated some sort of international norm.
We think that these countries are far more susceptible to human rights abuses to begin with.
If you're being sanctioned, you're probably not a country with a very good human rights record.
Sanctions mean that a number of things may occur: first, embargoes that prevent goods from coming in or being sold to foreign countries.
This automatically means that the people are harmed by the increased price of goods and layoffs in domestic business to cover for in losses.
When your domestic businesses can't make the same profit as before, they have to lay off employees, and when you're not able to import as many international goods to fill your grocery stores and to fill your stores generally, there's going to be a shortage on things that people need.
These same harms don't have any impact on the ruling class, because the ruling class will always have the money and always have the power that ensures that they're not going to go hungry at night, that they're not going to be lacking because of the sanctions, and they won't be able to get these things anyway.
The second thing that can happen is cutting off aid being sent to foreign nations.
Now, this aid ultimately oftentimes goes to the people as well.
These are stuff like humanitarian aid or developmental aid, aid that ultimately improves the lives of the people on the ground at a far higher rate than improves the lives of people that are already in power.
The the growth potential for people that are on the bottom already is much higher with this aid and therefore, withdrawing this aid is also problematic.
Governments can increase taxes, they can seize private property, they can manipulate prices to ensure that they're able to stay in power, ultimately ensuring that the keys to power, things like your military, your bank, your religious leaders, your cultural leaders, they're all able to do just fine.
You're able to raise enough funds to ensure that, but the average person is always going to suffer after these means are taken.
Secondly, sanctions are just ineffective.
Historically, sanctions have done a poor job of actually creating change.
Look at iran, look at its russia, look at syria.
Nations are able to point to the country invoking the sanctions and blame the harm on them.
It passes the rage on those on onto those nations that are creating the sanctions and granting a real threat to the country being sanctioned, preventing a threat to those that are in power.
Sanctions are often undermined by other global power players as well.
So, for example, when the united states sanctions iran, iran is still able to get plenty of help from countries like china and russia, they're still able to do well enough.
We are not actually going to collapse the state.
You're not actually going to do a significant amount of harm.
It just shifts alliances and leads to geopolitical activity that isn't actually doing any good for the people on the ground.
It always comes back to harming those people on the ground, and that's what sanctions ultimately and fundamentally do.
They're a way of showing soft power to the world that doesn't create much change unless you're an innocent person in the country being sanctioned.
For these reasons, we should end the use of economic sanctions.