We should prohibit unisex bathrooms.
So in this debate, what we mean by prohibit unisex bathrooms is not that we're going to have a total ban.
If you're a private business that wants to have unisex bathrooms that's your decision.
But when we're prohibiting unisex bathrooms we're going to say that in public spaces we would not allow them, that any publicly funded buildings, any government buildings, all these types of things we would not allow unisex bathrooms.
So, let's talk about why we think this is how the government should proceed.
We think that the general principle we're going to be talking under is that we simply do not believe that the state should legislate for the small minority, that when making decisions the state should ultimately proceed in a way that the majority of people agree with.
So let's talk about why that is.
The government by its nature is meant to be conglomeration of citizens' beliefs.
The reason for this is several fold.
The first is that the government is ultimately an amalgamation of its citizens.
The government as a body represents its citizens on the national stage and serves to protect its citizens in the domestic sphere.
We think that all citizens need to be given equal value for a few reasons.
First in order to apply laws equally across all groups, to ensure that the state has a just application of the laws on its books, citizens need to be viewed equally so as to not get special distinctions or privileges in a legal sense.
Secondly, we think that you need to ensure that social divisions do not become equivalent with political strength, that is to treat all people as equal ensures that no matter the the wealth level of a person, no matter the level of distinguished nature of someone's of someone's work or someone's actions that they're still given the same equal political strength.
And finally we think that it's the case that all people are constrained by the government in equal degrees because there's an equal application of the law all people are essentially subject to the coercive of apparatus of the state in similar ways and therefore all should have a say in the equal sh-all should have an equal say in the constraints.
We think that necessarily if you're going to value all people equally, then when you're passing such prohibitions or making such restrictions you do so in reference to the general will of the populace.
We think therefore government legislation should be decided by aggregating the preferences of the whole inciting laws that most people would agree with.
We think that this system is designed to help transgendered individuals that having unisex bathrooms is meant to accomidate a very small portion of the population.
However there are far more people who are uncomfortable with the idea of unisex bathrooms.
There are people that simply do not believe that transgender lifestyles are healthy or in in many other instances and the vast majority of people simply don't feel with the idea of people from the other gender or the other sex being in the same bathroom as them.
We think that given that this is the case that there are huge populations and huge amounts of people that don't like these things that feel deeply uncomfortable these things especially in a sphere that is incredibly personal your bodily functions are something that were taught from childhood are a very personal aspect of who you are we think in those areas the most people should be made the most comfortable and we think that in order to do that prohibiting the use of these things in public spaces like publicly owned buildings and schools are the best ways to ensure that you are passing laws and you're building these schools and you're designing these types of public spaces with the majority in mind that you make the space safer for those in the majority.
This doesn't mean that private businesses or that private practices that aren't part of the majority that don't believe in the majority can't act in that way but we think that in order for the government to be fundamentally just it must act in line with the majority and that in this case because the transgender group of people is massively out is massively outpaced by those that are simply uncomfortable with the idea of unisex bathrooms we should prohibit unisex bathrooms.