We should cancel the national flood insurance program.
So, we think it's important to just recognize that this is a failing program.
The national flood insurance program was a program that was founded in the nineteen fifties.
It was a program that came to exist before there was as much significant flooding as there is today and before serious global warming impacts started to arise.
It was a program that was good in theory but has since had a significant lack of funding, and it requires massive amounts of debts in order to provide the relief that it is to the limited number of people that it can actually help.
It's a program that has had little that has had little opportunity to increase the amount of funding that's being provided for it.
The government has not historically increased it at a rate that is higher than that to keep up with inflation, but the problem with that is that in the status quo, there are just significantly more floods than there were when the program first started.
It's an outdated model of dealing with the impacts of global warming and, additionally, it is very unlikely that this program will receive improved funding in the future.
So what that means is that there is a program that exists that people believe is doing more than it actually can do, and it is failing them.
People have this expectation that the government is going to help them, but most people are not able to get major reimbursement for floods, or they're living in areas that are major flood hazards but aren't covered, because the maps that we're using for flood zones are based on flooding patterns that happened thirty and forty years ago rather than patterns that occur now.
For example, much of houston was wiped out by the hurricane season that came this last year, but most of houston was not under the same mapping that would cover that would have the area covered by the national flood insurance program.
So the maps that the insurance program is based off of are highly outdated.
What we think this means is that we would prefer if that this system was canceled and we move to a system of private insurers going forward, firstly, because we think it's more likely to inform people that their houses are in a disaster zone.
If you're not willing to provide insurance in certain areas, it means that people are more likely to move out of those areas, unlike the status quo in which maps are currently out of date.
And it prevents people from experiencing these disasters in the first place.
You can also require flood insurance at a federal level in risk states to ensure that there is a large market to compete for claims.
So this means that you if you require insurance in, say, all of texas, areas that are actually prone to flooding can still get insurance coverage because there are other areas that could be impacted by flooding but likely are not as are not going to be impacted by flooding that are still paying insurance costs, and you have a market that can bear the brunt of additional flooding in other areas.
We also think that you can reserve the current funds that are going to the national flood insurance program for immediate assistance, for things like fema and post-disaster relief on a large scale, things like trying to bring back electric in the area, things like providing shelter, short-term shelter for people that have been impacted by these natural disasters rather than paying funds out on an individual basis and to a limited select group of people.
In short, the national flood insurance program is failing and it's unlikely to improve in the future.
We shouldn't be making false promises through the existence of this program and would rather have a system of private insurers.
For these reasons, we should cancel the national flood insurance program.