We should not criminalize victim blaming.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why criminalizing victim blaming is both unjust and, essentially, impractical and impossible to enforce.
So, firstly, when we're when you say what you're you're going to criminalize victim blaming, what you're saying is that if someone expresses an opinion that someone who's who's had a criminal act or some sort of other ill befall them, if that person says that they are in some sense or even explicitly to blame for that bad fortune, that you're going to say that they should be punished in some way.
Whether this is jail time, whether this is a fine, you're making the statement that the government should intervene because this person held an opinion that may not be politically savory, it may not be something that is just, it may be ill-informed but, essentially, for holding an opinion that does no other person ill, at least directly, that that person should be harmed in some way.
We think that this goes against the very fundamental tenets of freedom of speech that we hold in western liberal democracies.
We think that in our democratic states, freedom of speech is upheld and held to a high standard for a reason.
Because in order to be able to express yourself, in order to be able to live a free and open life in the way that you see fit, you need to be able to express the opinions that you hold, when those opinions and when those words do not bring direct harm onto another person.
And saying that someone is at fault for an ill that has befallen them may be something that people don't like to hear, but it doesn't mean that it's something that befalls a direct ill on someone.
It's not spewing hate at them.
It's not instigating violence against them.
It's it's simply expressing an opinion.
And we think it is incredibly it is incredibly ludicrous in a democratic state that upholds free speech to say that we should criminalize someone holding an opinion.
We think that that is fundamentally unjust.
But additionally, it is just not a practical thing to enforce.
What would the standard be for victim blaming, and in which instances is victim blaming correct?
In which cases is it fair to say that an ill that has befallen someone is because of their fault?
And, yes, oftentimes these are in instances that are problematic, such as instances of blaming a victim who's a victim of sexual assault for saying things that they were dressed inappropriately, or that they were in a bad neighborhood, or things like that.
And, yes, these things are obviously unsavory, but how do you enforce this on a broad scale?
Is this only against media members?
Are you going to arrest people for making posts like this on their social media?
Are you going to monitor facebook and twitter to make sure that victim blaming can be fined?
This is just a law that is impossible to enforce.
And at what point is someone victim blaming?
Like, what is the red line that they have to cross in order for them to go from expressing an opinion about the crime generally to victim blaming?
This is a standard and this is part of the reason why criminalizing speech is so difficult.
It's because it's so subjective.
It's because any sort of standard that you try to draw is not only going to be arbitrary, but it's going to be so subjective when something meets that standard that it means that the law's unlikely to be enforced in a fair way, which means that the law's unjust on an additional level: not only is it principally unjust to criminalize this speech, but it's also principally unjust to apply law in uneven manners, for some people to be punished for an action and other people not to be punished for an action that is similar.
We think that victim blaming, while problematic in many instances, certainly should not be criminalized.
And for these reasons, we should not criminalize victim blaming.