We should close landfills.
So in this round we think that we're not going to talk specifics about the alternatives as far as what we're going to mandate, but we think that generally landfills as a way that we reduce our trash or a way that we dispose of our trash is something that should not be used.
So firstly, landfills have huge environmental harms.
Recognize that the vast majority of things that we throw out will eventually rot away and decompose and that leads to incredibly harmful gas emissions that can be deadly if deadly if consumed in high quantities but more importantly lead to COTwo emissions that lead to increased global warming, increased climate change.
Also when these types of things deteriorate and and landfills fill with deteriorating material over vast swaths of land, it is certain that toxic chemicals end up seeping into the ground water and harming the surrounding environment.
Even if waste systems or even if if drinking water systems aren't aren't harmed by this pollution of toxic chemicals, it still means that that is going into the rain water and it's going to be evaporated.
It means the rain that pours down on our world is more toxic, more acidic, and with when you think about the massive scale of some of these landfills taking up miles of land or and this occurring thousands of times across numerous countries, it's easy to see how much waste, how much emissions is actually being generated from these landfills.
It's also just a hugely wasteful use of land.
Like if you're talking about square miles of land that are being used just for us to pile up our garbage, this could be used for this could be used for development.
This is land that otherwise could be useful to the human population but is instead just a dump.
Secondly, let's talk about the alternatives that we think are preferable.
First, increasing recycling centers.
Not enough people in the status quo recycle and not enough people are informed about what can actually be recycled.
Many people don't recycle for the purpose for the simple reason that they don't know whether or not something can be recycled or how to go about recycling.
So increasing awareness of recycling, increasing the amount of recycling centers and incentivizing recycling we think can go a long way.
There's also composting which is a way that you can dispose of trash in a more in a more sustainable way, in a way that is more environmentally friendly separating out trash that can rot naturally into the ground and can decompose naturally without creating immense amounts of waste.
This is something that can be incredibly beneficial.
There's also waste to energy incineration which is a development that allows you to essentially burn trash, burn this type of fuel in order to create energy, in order to power certain operations.
Even if you're not burning that trash, there's also processes that use microbes to create methane and that methane can then be used for energy.
It's a it's a harmonious system in which microbes essentially devour our trash and that trash is then used in their excrement it creates methane.
So we think that there are opportunities, there are options that are not landfills that can be utilized and these options don't come with the immense amount of environmental harm like the harmful emissions and the toxic chemicals that seep into our groundwater.
For these reasons, we should close landfills.