Boarding schools should not be abolished.
We think that the basic principle of this debate is whether or not boarding schools are something that parents should be able to send their children to and whether or not they have primary or whether or not there are benefits that exists to them unique from other systems of schooling.
We're going to argue in favor of both.
Our first argument is about why we think there's a right to choice in education.
We think that when it comes to educational standards and educational curriculum there are a wide variety of possibilities that exist for parents to send their children to, for parents to have their children become involved in, and we would say that while there are certain standards that we think are just preferable to have as opposed to others while certain basic ideas like being able to read, write, being able to do basic arithmetic, being able to have a basic understanding of the scientific model in the scientific the scientific investigative ideas, we think that outside of these things there's no definite correct standard of education.
We think that parents generally have a better understanding of what their children need of specializations that would be useful to their children because they know much more about the children than the government does.
They know about their children's interests, they know about what their children could potentially be doing in the future, they know about what their children needs as far as what they need to have in order to take in information, how they learn best.
They know all this information and not all schools are made equally.
Some schools have a better reputation, they have better educational facilities, they have better resources available to them to help them, and even if it's not a matter of better but a matter of different, certain resources are easier for children to use and for children to learn from than others based on the child.
This is all information that the parent has at their fingertips that this that the state simply cannot have.
Parents should have a right to foster their child's success as much as possible.
We would say, broadly then, that boarding schools expand the range of parents choices.
Allowing for boarding schools allow for parents to have a more broad discretionary decision to make over where their child is going to go to school and what type of schooling they're going to receive.
We think that this is good because parents not only know their children better but because of that bond they have with their child tend to have the child's best interests at heart more often than the government does.
All right.
Now we're going to talk about the benefits of boarding school.
We think there are three main ones: first, it creates an educational environment without distraction.
In the traditional public school system there are a number of distractions that people get caught up in because they go home every day, they bond outside of school, they don't have that type of close connection to their educational unit.
But we think that children that are in boarding schools are more likely to become enamored within that educational environment, become much more familiar with that educational environment, and create a bigger distinction between their home life, where they can do things in their free time that aren't educationally based, and their school life, where they should be focusing on learning, focusing on their education.
It also teaches children to learn how to be independent.
We're not saying that children should be sent off to school at age five and never see their parents again but that's not how boarding schools work.
Bording school do allow children to become more self sufficient, to learn how to behave when their parents aren't constantly watching them, when they don't have constant visual vigilance over their behavior and we think it allows children to mature more quickly.
Finally, we think you form closer bonds and friendships with your classmates when you're living in the same area as them, when your performing chores alongside them, when you're doing these types of things within a boarding school setting.
We think that those bonds can last for life and regardless of whether or not they're long term bonds, we think they are stronger bonds that let you enjoy your time in your primary education more than you would outside of it.
For these reasons we believe that parents should at least have the choice of sending their child to a boarding school and that boarding schools should not be abolished.