We should not subsidize hospice care.
So, in this round, it's important to recognize that this debate isn't about whether or not hospice care is good, but rather whether or not the government should provide funds to private entities that provide hospice care.
And in that regard, we think the answer is clearly no.
So the first argument that the government side makes is that people simply don't deserve to suffer at the end of their lives, that hospices provide enormously beneficial care for many people that go to them, that many of these people are suffering when they're terminally ill, and it's simply inhumane to allow these people to have those experiences.
But, again, this debate isn't about whether or not we should approve of hospice care.
It's not about whether or not it provides a valuable valuable benefit, but it's about whether or not government resources should be used.
And it's important to recognize that those resources are fungible, that the government doesn't have unlimited money to spend on everything that we think is good in the world, but rather the government needs to make serious choices about where it's going to allocate its budget.
And we think that, ultimately, when you're talking about healthcare, there are two things that need to be recognized.
First, we already spend a ton of money on healthcare.
We just don't think there's any other money to go around.
We think that we're already spending, especially in the united states, upwards of thirty to thirty five percent of our budget on health care alone, and we think that there's just not enough money to be gained from the system.
But more importantly, even if you think that you could have a tradeoff and maybe take money away from other places in healthcare, we think that you should give preference to those who aren't terminally ill.
And while that may sound crass and it may sound unfair, it's important to recognize that when the government is making choices, it needs to do so in a way that is most utile, in a way that is most beneficial to the whole of society rather than just to individuals, because the whole of society is what's paying into taxes and paying into this potential subsidy.
And we think it's important that if you're going to subsidize something, it provides as broad of a benefit as possible, and when it comes to whether or not you're going to subsidize hospice care or other types of medical care, preventative and curative care is simply more likely to be utile in the long run, not just for individuals but also for society as a whole.
And so we think that this subsidy would necessarily create a tradeoff with other funding that we could be putting towards those types of care and because of that, we shouldn't do it.
Yes, people don't deserve to suffer at the end of their lives, but we don't think that this debate is about whether or not hospices are good but rather about the subsidy.
So the second argument that the government side makes is that these these hospices, in the status quo, are largely underfunded.
But, again, we just don't think that this is a reason that we should subsidize this.
There are many things that people consider to be broadly good within our society, many charities and non-profits that exist that people consider to be, on net, a very good thing, that are underfunded.
But because the government has fungible resources, it can't just prop everything it up.
It can't just spend more and more money , you know, at the detriment of having to tax citizens at a higher level, take their property, and do things that are ultimately unjust.
And we think that when you're talking about hospices versus maybe small, local clinics or, especially, clinics in urban areas, hospices are no more underfunded than many other healthcare providers.
Most healthcare providers are on a range of spectrum from lacking resources to having ample resources, and that goes for hospitals, that goes for small private practices, and that goes for hospices as well.
Ultimately, when the government is making choices about how to spend its money on healthcare, it should be spending that money on preventative and curative care, because that's what will benefit the whole the most.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize hospice care.