We should fight global warming.
So when we're talking about this specifically in a policy sense we mean a few things.
Firstly, we think that nations should set emissions caps both for individual businesses as well as for the nation as a whole.
So set standards by which if you exceed a certain amount of CO two emissions there'll be fines other sorts of penalties and also invest heavily and convert the main power grid to green technology fuel rather than using fossil fuels primarily and to try and eventually wean off of fossil fuels entirely.
Okay, so we think there's one main reason why we should fight global warming and that it is a fundamental existential threat to humanity.
If it is the case that global warming poses a threat to the vast majority of livelihoods on this planet, we can that any other consideration whether they be economic or cultural or what not, all fall in comparison to the importance of showing that some sort of semblance of human life can remain.
So why is this so important?
Well, the science is very clear that firstly we caused what is currently happening.
There is no rise in temperatures, no change in weather patterns as great as what is happening currently in the anthropomorphic error, in the era in which humans have been able to pollute from the industrialization of of european european states in america onwards to the present time in history and that these CO two emissions, our own CO two emissions, are largely the cause for this.
So recognize that there are clear harms that are being presented because of global warming.
Firstly, rising ocean levels and rising temperatures in those oceans is causing more extreme weather patterns.
It is causing the erosion of coastal wildlife, of coastal regions, of entire small nations.
These places are being decimated by these rising sea levels.
Increases in drought and other things like that across the middle east and across africa have caused massive conflicts and massive water shortages and all of these things are only going to get worse.
The extreme weather patterns all these things are going to be especially problematic for countries that are the least developed, the ones with the least developed infrastructure and also the ones that have done the least to contribute to global warming.
So we think that there is an obligation of those that caused the harm to protect them from the harm as well as the fact that we're dooming our own future our children, future generations who had no choice about the process of global warming that we created.
They had no choice about coming into this world at all.
We think we owe it to them given that we're forcing them to live with the consequences of our actions to be considerate of their considerations and to ensure that these these individuals, these lives that are going to come to exist are not made fundamentally harmed.
So we think that there are clear signs that these things are happening and we think that to pretend that are to pretend that we are not the innate cause of these things is simply to ignore the science and to ignore what we know to be true.
We think the destruction of peoples and the destruction primarily of peoples that didn't lead to this type of global warming, that didn't lead to this climate change, we think that these are the people that have often been the most the most harmed historically, the most marginalized historically, developing nations that urban harm from colonialism in the past.
We think that choosing to ignore global warming is just a perpetuation of the same cycles of violence that exist against these people, that have existed historically.
We think we have an obligation as developed, industrialized states, to take steps to ensure that these people can be saved.
No other threat has come so so drastically against the vast majority of humanity.
Nuclear weapons and things like that may had the may have had the potential to cause the erasure of the human species but without some sort of drastic change, millions and billions of lives are going to be at risk and we think that is unacceptable.
That is why we should fight global warming.