We should not abandon television.
In this debate the government side says that we should shift our resources to streaming services rather than traditional over the air or cable or satellite television.
We think that this creates a dramatically false dichotomy that doesn't actually recognize how streaming services have become so successful.
We think that the reason that streaming services like netflix, like hulu have become so widespread and so accepted is not because the streaming itself is useful but because they provided access to high quality content that was produced on television in things that you wouldn't have gotten without television existing for example, the most viewed television or the most viewed programs on netflix are not netflix original series they're parks and recreation, they're the office they're the walking dead, they're things that wouldn't have been able to exist without the large amount of funding that comes from traditional television networks.
The first argument they make directly is that consumers have more choice in that streaming provides infinite access to whatever you want but this again doesn't recognize the issue that I highlighted just now that if you get rid of television, that if you don't have these networks that have deep pockets, that have a wide audience, then you're not going to be able to provide as much content as there otherwise would be.
Netflix doesn't have infinite money to fill their catalog with only netflix created content so they need to subsidize themselves with traditional television.
The same goes for hulu.
Streaming services would fall off a cliff if you didn't have traditional television.
We think you would have worse quality content and we think that people benefit from having the ability to consume mainstream media and the ability to consume networks like NBC and CBS that have the money to spend on content because they just have a broad a broad reach.
We also think that the idea of more choices is just not true.
There are hundreds of television networks that you can access through your cable provider and so we just don't think that this is actually a big issue.
The second thing that they bring up is niche programing in that you can maximize your ROI of niche content when you're on streaming services and that you get more diverse creators because you don't need as much buy-in from like a network let's say and so again first, TV is not exclusionary a screening.
You can have both in our world where as the government world only has streaming.
But the benefit of the benefit of TV is maybe you do get more diverse creators streaming online but you can also get is big television networks picking up successful niche content and putting it on their network which spreads the reach of those programs to more people which means you get more exposure and again this is not exclusionary of streaming, it's just one way that television can help expand the outreach and the and the impact of these diverse creators.
The final thing he talks about is that streaming is just less expensive.
There's high upkeep costs for television providers.
Look television is still immensely profitable.
ESPN despite how expensive the government team lays it out, is still a profitable business and and is able to get more people streaming because of their television access.
We think that streaming and television go hand in hand and to say that we should just abandon television we think doesn't recognize the quality increase that you get in streaming in all other forms of media because of the traditional television model that we have today and for these reasons we should not abandon television.