Abolish the american jobs act.
The american jobs act consists of a series of proposals that would do things like increase the length of unemployment benefits, it would increase spending on things like infrastructure, schools, as well as give a massive amount of tax breaks that are incentivized around getting people to go back to work and to increase employment.
So, recognize that in the status quo, the employment market in the united states is at its best that it has been since the recession.
The unemployment rate is somewhere between four and five percent, which means that most americans that are looking for work are able to find work and as such, it is simply unnecessary to have this this type of massive market interference for a few reasons.
Firstly, government spending crowds out private initiatives.
What this means is that when you have spending from the government, it doesn't mean that private spending that otherwise would have gone to similar measures continues to go to those measures.
What it means is that it holds back private investment, which means that if you have the government investing in things like jobs and infrastructure and things like that, if there were other projects that otherwise would have been going towards these ends, those projects get crowded out by the government, which means that the government ends up spending money that was otherwise wasteful.
Secondly, recognize that this is essentially just a follow-up of the stimulus bill that followed the recession, a stimulus bill which in and of itself didn't work all that well.
The stimulus bill didn't lead to any sort of massive recovery.
It didn't lead to any sort of market confidence in the american economy.
It put a lot of money into the economy.
It may have stagnated the economy rather than letting it go into a spiral downwards, but this doesn't mean that it proposed some sort of massive solution.
We don't think that it's worth, especially in this moment, spending the massive amount of money, the massive amount of tax breaks and outlays and expenditures that come with this bill in this moment, given that it is modeled after a previous bill which has shown to be ineffective.
It's shown that it didn't do the good that it was intended to do.
Thirdly, we would say that it's not the the government's job to interfere in free market enterprise, rather to maximize individual autonomy.
What we mean by this is that the government doesn't exist to regulate the economy and to put people into individual roles and jobs and to designate how the economy is going to function.
The government exists as a political body to ensure that people are able to freely interact with that market.
That doesn't mean that the government is responsible for propping up that market when it's failing.
It doesn't mean the government is responsible for giving people jobs in a free market.
It means that the government is responsible for ensuring that if people want to get a job, they are legally and physically capable of going out and seeking that job, that there aren't restrictions put in place that make it impossible for them to interact with the market.
This goes far beyond that measure.
This goes from saying you have a negative right, a negative capability of going into that market, to a positive obligation of the government to spend money, to to put money out there to try and employ individuals.
Some estimates say that up to two hundred thousand dollars per job created is being spent by this bill.
We simply think that that outlet is not necessary, especially given the improving economic state of america in the status quo.
We don't think that it's justified for the government to interact in the to the economic sphere, and we certainly don't think it's justified for the government to do so to the degree that the american jobs act requires it to do.
We think that you should allow private market private market enterprise to to fully expand and to fully be able to regulate itself and for these reasons, we should abolish the american jobs act.