We should privatize the military.
Now, this is a fairly complex topic.
So let's outline exactly what we mean when we say we're going to privatize the military.
First, we're going to ensure that any sort of military action is done by paramilitary groups, by private military organizations.
We think that these things can be scaled down, so the way that this could work is that we would break down existing military infrastructure and then contract that infrastructure out to other organizations.
They can bid on existing things like tanks, planes, weapons, things like that.
We think that that's absolutely fine.
We're not going to farm out nuclear weapons.
We think that that is probably a step too far, but everything else we're going to privatize and we're going to ensure that it's run by private corporations.
On top of that, those private corporations will have heavy amounts of oversight.
We think that, one: this is likely to slow the pace of military action, but we actually think that that's probably a good thing, that we're not too hasty into in to walking in to bad uses of military action.
We think that especially in the recent past, when it comes to the united states, the military has been far too quick and far too eager to act with things like drone strikes that don't have any sort of congressional approval or congressional oversight.
We think that with the privatization of the military would also come immensely would come immensely more congressional oversight.
In addition to that, we think that in the status quo, the united states and most other countries for them for that, for that matter, spend way too much money on the military.
It's something that we are in a time of general peace in the world.
We have not been, in fact, a more peaceful world than we have not ever in our past been more peaceful than we are today.
Yet, billions and billions of dollars are spent every year from domestic budgets on military spending.
We're building more aircraft carriers, we're building more tanks, we're building more jets, all these things that cost immensely more money, and this is happening at a time when the military itself in the united states is saying we don't need these things.
So we think that by privatizing the military not only does it mean that you're not spending the same amount of money on the military, but it also means that when you privatize, it leads to lower costs and it leads to cutting waste, because in order to be competitive, in order to earn government contracts, in order to be the private supplier of military action, you need to do so at a competitive market rate.
And the market rate that we are acting as a public provider of the military right now is dramatically higher than what it actually needs to be to provide security for the state.
So we think you're likely to kill two birds with one stone.
You're going to get more congressional oversight because congress needs to make sure that private actors aren't acting on the united states behalf with military action in times when it's not warranted, and it additionally lowers costs that are currently being accumulated by the military.
And that's great because it means you can go and put that money towards better uses: things like our education system, things like our infrastructure, maybe we can pay off existing public debts.
There's so much that you can do with the billions of dollars that we spend on the military every year that wouldn't be spent if it was privatized.
And finally, we think that privatization removes abuses like mandatory services or drafts because, obviously, a private company cannot be allowed to force someone to work for that company.
So it removes the abuses that come with state-owned military, it removes the high spending, and it removes the aggressive action that the state, through the executive branch, often takes.
For these reasons, we should privatize the military.