We should limit the internet of things.
So in this round we're going to talk about not that there should be some sort of legal limitations on the internet of things, though we would be in favor of those as well, but simply that companies and consumers should move away from their interconnected products.
That things like internet connected refrigerators, internet connected toilets and TV's and beds and all these things that are growing into our world, we think that they should be largely limited.
Alright so first we're gonna say that these types of items are largely unnecessary.
So let's actually look at the things that the internet of things provides: the internet of things only provides superficial benefits to people rather than real value.
If you look at things and objects like toilets that allow you to flush them with voice control rather than pushing a button, or refrigerators that have access to the internet so that you can look up recipes, which is something that you can already do on your phone, on your smartphone on your computer, in a cookbook, like this is all superficial value that's being added to the world.
It simply allows people to people lazier, become more reliant on their technology and to lose many to lose the ability to do many of these same things for themselves.
We think that this is problematic because technological dependence, while it may not be problematic in one's day to day life, we think that it makes people less self reliant and that in situations that ultimately arise in one's life where they are able to use their technology to solve their problems, aren't able to have access to those types of things, that makes them much more vulnerable to be harmed.
We think this also increases data that can be used to particular to tailor particular desires, but also increases security risks.
These new things that we gain are not necessary for our personal happiness or our well being.
Our ancestors got along for millennia without the internet of things.
People were perfectly satisfied for the last one hundred and fifty years with a refrigerator that provided real value.
You know, allowing people to have goods be be preserved in cold for long periods of time.
But having an internet connection to that type of object, and this isn't just about refrigerators obviously but just the point is transferable to many other objects that are being produced in the internet of things.
So now let's talk a little bit more about those security risks.
When you have all of these internet connected devices it's much easier for viruses to be deployed and spread.
And the reason for this is that while maybe in your, when you have your devices all connected to each other, when they're connected either through the cloud or some sort of other local area network or something like that that's connecting all of your devices, even if your say computer is well protected, even if you have strong anti virus on your computer and you have all these protections for your passwords and all these things in your browser, this isn't necessarily the case for say your, again, refrigerator.
It's not the case that this type of device, which is connected to the internet and it is possible that that connection could be hacked or could be intruded upon with a virus, there's no guarantees that that is going to be protected and it's likely very difficult to kind of program these types of protections because we haven't faced viruses that impact these particular types of operating systems before.
There's a large amount of data that can be breached from this increased internet of things and that data can, even if it's not be breached simply be given away to businesses unknowingly by consumers.
We think that there are massive security risks, not just for one's personal data but also the in addition to those security risks, the fact that that data can be simply given away.
And on top of it all it's simply just is not gaining real increased value into individuals' lives.
For these reasons we should limit the internet of things.