We should decrease the use of automation.
We think that automation has created immense benefits to our world thus far but it's important to recognize that automation is entering a new stage.
Automation through things like machine intelligence and general purpose robots are entering into a stage, are pushing us as a species into a stage in which humans previously during the last industrial revolution were able to move from manual work to work that required specialization, to work that required intelligence.
But once this automation can replace those jobs, there we are simply not prepared for a world in which the vast majority of people cannot be employed and that's where we're heading towards right now and because of that, we need to decrease the use of automation.
Recognize that through things that the vast majority of jobs that exist today are jobs that existed a hundred years to a hundred years ago.
So despite this myth that technological innovation creates new jobs, for the vast majority of people this is not the case.
For the vast majority of people technological innovation has led to a phasing out of their jobs.
It has lead to them being pushed out of the economy altogether and and as I explained earlier, we are heading towards a stage in which more and more people are going to be excluded from their jobs because of automation.
Consider for example self-driving cars automation that can go to things like the travel industry but can also good towards things like the shipping industry.
These are two of the largest industries in the country.
In the united states the single most common the single most common job is to be a driver of some sort, is to be someone that delivers goods in a truck, for example, but if you remove all of those people, if you remove those jobs from the market through automation then all the sudden thousands and millions of people no longer have employment and we're not in a world, we're not in a country that is prepared for that kind of change.
We don't have the social safety net and the structure to ensure that long term unemployment like that isn't going to make a family or an individual destitute.
We haven't created the social safety nets that allow this to occur.
So if we continue to progress in our use of automation, and truck driving is just one field, but this can be applied to nearly every field of study in some sort and to general purpose robots things that are specializations like professionals such as doctors and lawyers are not safe from this either.
Jobs of any sort of skill set are at risk from automation.
We think that this only is likely in the future to create an increase in inequality.
It's going to create a system in which there are those that control the automation, those that control the means of production, and those that do not and those that do control will profit and those that do not will suffer and obviously this is a system that is both unequal and unsustainable if the vast majority if more than fifty percent of your population literally cannot be employed.
Because of this, we think that we need to decrease the current use of automation.
We need to slow down and we need to start fundamentally preparing for this transition from a world of work to a post-work world.
But we have not in any way shape or form laid down the groundwork for that type of transition, for that type of change and going full steam ahead like we currently are is only going to lead us towards a path of upheaval, of sadness, and of suffering.
For these reasons, we should decrease the u of automation.