We should not limit the right of self-defense.
So, before we start, we want to point out an argument right at the top about what this debate is actually about, because the government tries to misconstrue current laws regarding self-defense, saying that you can currently just say there's some sort of nebulous threat and that's always going to justify harm and, instead, you need to show some sort of real threat existed.
And while you certainly don't need to show, in the status quo, that a real threat existed, you can be wrong but still get off on self-defense based on self-defense, we think it's important to recognize that there still needs to be a perceived justified use of force.
If, in the situation, someone cannot show that they reasonably could have been under duress, they reasonably could have believed there is a real threat that existed for them, in those cases, self-defense does not serve as a defense that's actually going to get you out of criminal prosecution.
And just because, in some instances, such as the instance with trayvon martin that people that court cases did not turn out in the way that many people would have liked, this doesn't mean that the laws themselves are not currently reflective of a much higher burden for self-defense than the government lays out.
We think that, definitionally, self-defense is a justified use of force.
We think that if you're using excessive violence, this doesn't necessarily mean that you are unjustified.
But if you're not provoked with some sort of legitimate reason and then you use excessive violence, then we think that is already a crime.
We think that if people feel threatened, though, if they feel like their life may be in danger, they shouldn't have to feel like they don't have the ability to defend themselves.
They shouldn't have to feel like they're going to get in trouble at the end of the day for doing what needs to be done in order to protect themselves.
And quite frankly, most people will not change their behavior patterns correspondingly with changes in self-defense laws because most people, when acting in a way that they believe to be self-defense, are always going to believe that they're justified.
It's not like people take violent or racist actions, they go and hurt other people and then just say, " oh, it was self-defense, " and make up a story.
No.
If people are claiming self-defense, they do believe themselves to be justified.
And so changing the law in the way that the government side lays out not only puts a constraint on people that they're never going to follow, but ultimately, we think, is principally wrong, because we think that the current laws are sufficient in how they limit the right of self-defense and that you still can't just make up stories or cite some sort of nebulous law in order to protect yourself.
So the first argument that the government side makes is that this is going to fight racism and police brutality.
They talk about how there's like an inherent bias in our society that we view black as not safe and white as safe and because of that, bad things happen, like the police killing of unarmed black people.
So and they say this directly, say people act recklessly and then just claim self-defense.
So, first, we think that their line is still somewhat nebulous.
So even if you buy all of their terms, we think the idea that you can just say it was entirely justified, that a real threat existed, well let's look at the case of trayvon martin, because there was an altercation that existed, that occurred there.
There was some sort of fight.
There isn't evidence of how this fight actually occurred, and so it's very easy to just say there was a that there was a real threat that existed.
Whether or not there actually was is something that we cannot know, but we construct our best idea based on the evidence available to us, and that is what's used right now to show whether or not there is a justified belief that a threat existed.
And so we don't think their standard actually changes all that much.
Finally, when it comes to something like how police are behaving and police brutality, we think issues of police brutality are caused by a system that protects police officers, not because self-defense laws are the way they are, but because there's some there's a lot of institutional backing for police.
And so we don't think that actually changing self-defense laws themselves are going to do all that much to rein in police officers.
For these reasons, we should not limit the right of self-defense.