The use of AI should not be abandoned.
So, we think that debates about AI largely come down, on the government side, to fearmongering.
It's essentially a claim that AI is an unknown and that the unknown should be feared and that we should not seek the unknown.
But we've seen, time and again, through human history that seeking the unknown has brought us countless benefits, that it has allowed for us to expand and have a higher quality of life now than we've ever had before in human history, and we think that AI has the potential for life-changing innovation that could drastically, once again, improve all of humankind.
We think that as far as like as far as practical or existent reasons to believe that AI is going to do something like take over the world, or kill all people, or any of these things, there's no tangible reason to believe these things will occur, besides fearmongering within science fiction and this sort of popular image of artificial intelligence taking taking shape as some malevolent malevolent autocrat.
But we think there's no reason that an artificial intelligence would want to have our kind of human desires.
We have no reason to believe that an artificial intelligence would care much at all about our society or would even care much about gaining something, because we we can't comprehend what that artificial intelligence is going to be like.
But, quite frankly, the status quo that we live in is one in which this sort of cognizant, superintelligent AI is so far into the future that even before that point comes, we think that we think that abandoning AI now is far too soon given the benefits it it could present.
So the first thing that the government side says is that artificial intelligence is ethically problematic, that you're essentially creating beings that are similar to humans, and that scientists simply shouldn't own life.
So, besides the kinda blippy answer of, " well, we own animals, why can't we own artificial animals, " let's actually address the meat of this argument.
So, first, we don't think that these artificial intelligences are likely to be very human at all.
Humans have a a number of biological needs that overwhelmingly drive the actions that they take that artificial intelligence simply wouldn't have.
We think that, for the most part, these things are not going to be all that similar, that neural networks and the types of things that that allow artificial intelligence to make decisions are not necessarily going to give rise to a consciousness that we are familiar with, and so we think that we shouldn't ban or abandon AI now, before we even start to begin to see what this could be like.
And, also, if we do get to the point where we essentially create digital humans, we should probably just give them rights then.
We're totally fine with that.
The second argument that the government makes is that artificial intelligence could essentially be an existential threat, but I just don't understand why these cyber beings would crave human resources.
We don't understand why it is the first thing that these cyber beings would do would be to launch nuclear weapons that would probably wipe them out too.
We think it is incredibly unlikely that this sort of malevolent AI arises out of nowhere, and we think that before it even could, we would probably be able to catch it and shut it down because, ultimately, while artificial intelligence could become incredibly powerful, it still relies on the same resources that we have that we have access to and that we can manipulate in the physical world.
The final argument that they make is that this is going to be economically devastating.
But recognize that most of the automation that they point to is already going to happen, like driverless cars.
That technology exists and is going to be pushed to market.
The types of things that allow people like basic service workers and blue collar jobs to function are already being dramatically wiped out, but what artificial intelligent provides that the current automation does not, advancement in this, I should say, is that we think there's potential for bliss and the potential that these artificial intelligences could essentially form the economy in a major way.
They could basically run the functions that we have now and leave mentally more time for leisure and for pleasure for most people.
For these reasons, the use of AI should not be abandoned.