We should not end progressive taxation.
So in this debate we're going to do two things.
First, we're going to talk about why taxation is in of itself justified and then we're going to explain why on that basis progressive taxation is the most fair form of taxation and the most reputable way of taxing citizens.
Okay so why is taxation necessary?
So we think the justification for taxation actually reveals a lot about why progressive taxation is important.
Taxes make up for the public spending that provide crucial services to individuals.
This is obvious.
What is clear is that people cannot accumulate wealth, cannot accumulate capital, without the state apparatus.
The reason for this is that there are numerous parts of the state whether it's infrastructure, whether it's insurance, whether it's physical, and physical protection of assets, all of these things that are done free for the citizen through taxation, that are done as part of the existence of the state.
We think that without these crucial functions, people would be unable to accumulate capital in the first place and we would exist to the state of nature and with no no assets are in and of themselves safe and people are always at risk of having their assets stolen from them.
So we think that what this shows you is that in this sense wealthier individuals are actually more likely to gain from the infrastructure, from the public spending, even though there's a people point to things like welfare spending and these types of things as huge parts of government budgets, this doesn't mean that those things are are the most beneficial to the poorest people.
It means that there are benefits to all segments of society that come from taxation but we think that wealthy people clearly accumulate a vast amount of good simply from the existence of the state itself.
So why do we think this means that it's most fair to tax in a progressive way?
We think that the most fair way to actually equalize the burden of taxation if we start from an assumption that even if we start from a basic assumption that all people gain some sort of benefit or an equal approximation of benefit from the state on balance, we think that the most fair way to equalize taxes is to equalize the burden of taxation.
What we mean by this is that when someone is being forced to spend a hundred dollars in paying taxes, if everyone were being forced to pay a hundred dollars in taxes, that one hundred dollars has a much higher burden on an individual that's making twenty thousand dollars a year than it is on an individual that's making twenty million dollars a year.
It's a much higher percentage of their income.
What this means is that even on even though on paper the nominal tax rate and the nominal cost of taxation is the same on all people, the real burden of taxation falls much heavier on the poorer individual.
So any form of taxation that is not progressive is in fact regressive taxation because even if you have a flat tax rate it's always going to please the burden of taxation the most on those that are least equipped to support that and we don't think that individual should be blamed on their social class.
It's very clear that most individuals are born into a social class and are unlikely to leave that social class and at no point is that the responsibility of them themselves.
It is some sort of moral weight that they ought to have to carry and given that all people have this equal desire for the goods of public service, they be equal desire for the state action, and they gain the same level of protection from the state, we think that all people should have to bear the same level of burden and this likely is going to mean that the poorest people in society pay little to no taxes on the richest people in society pay significantly more than everyone else but this means, as I explained earlier, that the burden is going to be the same on all.
That all people are going to be equally off put by the taxation that is existing but it means that all people are feeling the weight equally and that no person can claim that they're feeling any more pressure from taxation than anyone else even if the nominal rate of taxation is different.
We think that this is clearly the most fair way of assigning taxation and for these reasons, we should not end progressive taxation.