We should nationalize electricity generation.
So, for all current utility companies that exist, we think that those companies should be purchased by the government.
So we're not just going to seize those assets, but we're going to recuperate those that are losing their assets.
We're going to provide layoff benefits for people that potentially lose their jobs and, likely, we'll take in many of those people.
So we're going to take the infrastructure through a process similar to eminent domain in which people are compensated for their loss.
Two main arguments: the first is that nationalizing electricity generation mitigates the harms of monopolies.
Most privately owned utility companies, electricity companies, have monopolies on their particular area.
If you're getting your electric provided by a private company in your particular neighborhood, you likely do not have an alternative.
There's no other electric provider, because the infrastructure is owned by the same company, the generation itself is owned by the same company.
It means that there is no alternative to seek out.
This allows for massive increased costs with little blowback from the company, because if you have a monopoly, you can continue to raise prices as much as you possibly want, and people are still going to need to turn to your service.
And even though people may respond and say, " well, if you nationalize the electricity generation, well, that means the government has a monopoly, " but you have meaningful recourse against the government that you don't have against your local electricity generation utility provider.
I can't go and vote the CEO of my of my utility provider out of office.
I can't go and protest them in a way that will meaningfully impact their lives.
But if you have public officials accountable for electricity generation, it means that they're incentivized to lower prices as much as possible.
They're incentivized to provide as good of service as possible because they know that they can be simply voted out of office, and this is something that has a major impact on people's lives.
It has a direct impact on their pocketbook, and we know that people tend to vote where their money is.
So if you as an individual, as a legislator, are doing something that costs them more money, if you're not running the electric grid in an efficient way, if you're not running electricity generation in a cost-effective way, we think people are going to vote you out of office, and it means that, in a comparative sense, monopolies are less harmful when the monopoly is the government and when you nationalize the system.
But secondarily, we think that electricity is absolutely necessary in modern life, and we don't even think that's a particularly controversial claim.
We think that you nationalize utilities because nationalizing that utility guarantees access to that utility.
It means that if it's owned by the government, if it's owned by the public, that you have easy access and guaranteed access, through your rights as a citizen, to that utility.
I have a guarantee of my right to water within the united states because it is largely run by public utility systems, and because when something is publicly owned, you don't need to worry about profit margins as much.
Yes, you certainly don't want to run a system that's running massive deficits, but if you're running if you're breaking even as a government service, you're probably better off than most other government services, which means that you're not trying to get the same sort of profit margins that private electricity generation companies are.
Which means you're likely to provide the service at a lower cost, and you're likely to guarantee access to more people for something that is, quite frankly, incredibly necessary for modern life on this planet.
For these reasons, we should nationalize electricity generation.