We should limit genetic testing.
We think first as an overview, we're not saying that we're going to ban genetic testing or anything like that but we think genetic testing of any type must be heavily monitored by appropriate government agencies and that any sort of new procedures or new processes for genetic testing would need to pass some sort of system of regulatory compliance and oversight before going into effect and these would obviously we're willing to take on the burden that these are going to be very strong levels of oversight.
Two arguments for you today.
The first is that we think genetic testing opens unresolved moral issues.
When someone is getting genetic testing for some sort of a disease or to get a particular type of treatment the genetic testing that is common provides way more information than someone may be looking for and we're going to give some examples.
First, there's some sort of propensity for disease that can be brought up in your genetic testing.
There are many there are many genetic patterns and correlations between one's genes and their likelihood to get a future disease or their likelihood to get some sort of ailment in the future but these are things that have dramatic impacts on one's life and one may not want to go in say, you're getting genetic testing done for a disease you currently have, for some sort of illness that you currently have, you're not looking to get that you're not going into that hoping to get back information that in ten, twenty years you might be at risk of XYZ diseases.
There's also in central ancestral data that can impact one as well for example: finding out that you're not a blood relation to your to your to the people that you held to believe you're blood family and additionally, there's data that impacts one's family as well.
So having this sort of information for one person may mean that you can make deductions about the information and the propensity for disease in a wide variety of other people who are not part of the genetic testing.
There's no parameters in the status quo for how care givers should respond in these instances and there's a large potential to come with severe emotional distress.
Until we have some sort of moral barometer and some sort of understanding of how we should answer these types of questions, there must be intense limitations on genetic testing in order to ensure that when it's done it's done in a way that we can have reasonable expectations of the moral outcomes.
Secondarily though, we think that there is a severe slippery slope to genetic engineering that comes with genetic testing.
Having more development of genetic testing will almost certainly increase the capacity for genetic engineering as we perfect tech to work with jeans and we understand our genetic code in a more complex way.
We think that genetic engineering will lead ultimately to horrible social impacts.
We think the biggest one of these is that when new technologies come on the rise, they are always available to the rich and the powerful first.
This means that those people will be able to afford implants and augmentations that make them and their offspring smarter, more athletic, have longer life spans.
There's a whole there's a whole variety of impacts and benefits that could be gained from having these types of from having genetic engineering.
But if this is only being afforded to a small sector of the population, most average people will see little to no positive impact from genetic engineering.
All that we think you get is that you massively entrench current social and wealth divides that exists in our society.
We can see that those tensions are already causing huge problems in our societies and this will only make it worse.
But finally, we think genetic engineering leads to us losing our innate humanity and losing what makes us human, losing that common tie to our ancestors and to each other, about being a part of the same species, about having that same genetic makeup.
We think that when you do this you split humanity farther and farther apart from itself and from each other within within our human relationships.
We think that genetic testing without limitations will certainly lead to genetic engineering and that cannot be allowed and for these reasons, we should limit genetic testing.