Private universities should be banned.
We think the way that we're going to do this and to set up a model for this debate is that we're going to phase out private universities over the period of say ten years, and in this ten year period people will still be able to attend those universities but those universities won't be won't be allowed to accept new admissions and after that ten year period is over these universities will have to close their doors.
And at that point anyone that's still in that university will likely have to transfer, but hopefully after ten years people won't be won't still need to complete their degrees.
Okay, so we would say, and the broad argument that we want to make in this round is that college as a concept is incredibly problematic, and that private universities make that problematic concept in practice much worse.
What we mean by this is that there is massive social pressure to go to college.
Kids in high school and in middle school, and honestly throughout their whole lives, are told that their future depends on going to college.
And more so, they're told that they need to go to a name brand school if they're going to really succeed.
If they want to be successful in life they need to go to the most prestigious universities, these universities that happen to be private universities.
We think that private schools buy into this narrative in their marketing and in the way that they try to sell themselves to students, and they do it at an immense profit for themselves.
Private schools are way more way more costly than public education for a very similar quality of education that's being provided.
And it's also just not the case that everyone needs to go to college.
This is a myth that has been perpetuated, but there are good jobs that are available to people that choose not to go to college.
But this myth pressures people into going.
There's a fear of people that are exiting high school, that they can't get a good job without some sort of education.
And private schools increase their prices each year regardless of this fact.
We think that private schools hold immense amounts of leverage because of their social cachet and they can't be checked by the public in the same way that public schools can be.
We think that public schools have a budget that can be reined in by taxpayers and by politicians to ensure that you don't have to meet, you don't need to continually increase the cost of admission, and it can also ensure high standards for education.
More so, public education can draw on public funds.
Which means that in the event that you actually do need to raise the costs of running the university, you don't need to put the full weight of that cost on to people that are attending school, you can distribute it amongst the public.
This is especially crucial, because the people that are attending the schools are the people that are least capable of paying for that education.
We also think there's just more money for public schools if no one is going to a private school.
There will be an immense shift from private to public universities, and what that it will increase the collective resources at everyone's disposal.
This eliminates the pressure for people to mortgage their future in order to go to an expensive private school.
This idea is also just not a free choice because of that social stigma.
Because kids that are making the decision to go to a private school are not old enough to internalize what that debt burden will mean to them in in the future.
If you're a senior about to enter college, you don't know that taking on twenty thousand dollars a year in loans will ensure that you end up paying off those loans for a decade after you leave college.
It may eventually ruin your credit, it may eventually ruin your life, and you could have gone to a much cheaper public school instead.
We also think that people, even if they could internalize that value, could internalize that risk, still aren't able to make a free decision because of the social pressures of parents, classmates, employers and the media.
Banning private universities ensures that people make more reasonable fiscal decisions and it ensures that people aren't plagued by that social stigma of needing to go to an elite school when they simply cannot afford it.
For these reasons private universities should be banned.