We should abolish zoos.
So in this debate round we're going to say that when we're talking about zoos, we're not talking about things like animal sanctuary's.
We're not talking things like reservations or other types of environmental protection measures that allow for species to be protected, that allow for species to remain in their natural environment, or that are primarily to protect endangered species.
We think when we're talking about zoos we're specifically talking about institutions with the primary motivation of monetizing animals based on, you know, providing human pleasure.
We think that that is the central thing that differentiates a zoo is the financial motivation that exists and the financial motivation that comes not from protecting the animals or anything like that but from providing pleasure to humans.
So two reasons we should abolish zoos.
The first is that we think animals deserve rights and the second is given that animals deserve rights, we things zoos obviously violate those rights.
So why do we think animal should deserve rights?
We think that in order for rights to be important rights need to be constructed in an objective way.
Firstly, so that those rights can be unbiased.
We think that if you try and put arbitrary distinctions in who you choose to value within a rights framework, it ultimately becomes a series of preferences rather than a series and morality and we think that if you don't if you don't provide some sort of objective reasoning for drawing delineations between animals and humans we think that this is problematic.
Secondly, we think it needs to be binding.
So we think an objective system is one that is more likely to be binding on individuals because morality is meant to askew preferences and constrain those preferences.
So we think that you can simply set up arbitrary systems.
We think the best way to ascribe rights is on a principle of pleasure and pain, that we try to use rights to maximize pleasure and minimize pain.
We think that no matter what rights framework you ascribe to or what state you are a part of, the rights that you were granted essentially come down to the purpose of allowing for more freedom, more self expression, or to minimize the risk as outside harm.
We think that given that this is the fundamental principle that justifies rights, that animals should not be excluded because animals are able to experience these same types of experience.
They're able to experience pain.
They're able to experience pleasure and they're able to internalize that harm upon themselves have fear psychological damage.
All these things that because we can't experience doesn't mean that these things don't exist.
We think that oftentimes animals in zoos have a degree of sentence and they're able to do things like form communities and connect with with other individuals within their confines, within their species, and they're able to form emotional ties that get disrupted by zoos.
So why do we think zoos are bad?
Firstly.
The small confinements.
We think that oftentimes zoos have a monetary incentive to provide as little space as possible, to provide the bare minimum types of cleanliness, types of health care, all these things and this is shown in the fact that animals that live in zoos end up having a lower life expectancy, a higher mortality rate than animals of the same species in outsides environment in outside environments.
They're not meant to be confined.
It often goes against the very nature of these animals and results in mental and physical health deteriorating while these animals are in zoos.
We think that you separate them from their family and from their community and that this also leaves emotional and mental scars upon these animals and finally, we think that there are better alternatives for learning about animals even if you care about the fact that zoos provide some sort of learning opportunity.
We think that if these types of harms, these types of constraints and confinements were placed on human beings other rights bearers we would be outraged.
We think that zoos do this to those that deserve rights even though they may not be of the same species as us and because of this, we should abolish zoos.