We should not abandon social media.
So, in this round, we think that the government side has made broad generalizations based on generally anti-millennial rhetoric that we've heard throughout the mainstream media and traditional media for years now, but there's two things that is undeniable about social media.
Social media has allowed for an interconnectedness across continents in a way that has literally never been before possible in human history.
And the second thing that it's done is had allowed for marginal and for niche cultures and communities to come together in a way that was never before possible.
The communication that is possible between people in drastically different parts of the world have allowed for an increase in empathy, especially amongst younger generations, which we'll talk about a little more in a bit.
It's allowed for communities that have for long for for a very long time been marginalized in their society to come together, and while some of those may be problematic, many more are communities of people that have been underrepresented, communities of people that have been harmed by their governments, communities of people of color and people of gender that have gender that have like a fluid gender identity, all these types of things.
So let's dig into the arguments and dissect the arguments that the government side makes.
The first big argument they make is about isolation, that social media leads to a loss of freedom and communication and just an inability to communicate with one another.
And they say that social media provides a sense that you don't even need to go and see people in the real world and have these kind of face-to-face interactions with people, but this is, again, just the repetition of political talking points of people about millennials and gen z'ers for the past decade, for the past two decades.
This idea that people that are young just don't go out anymore and don't make real friends or form real connections, but this is just not only insulting to many people of younger generations but also just entirely untrue.
This young generation is one of the more politically active generations, not in the voting sense but in the political mobility sense.
They're far more empathetic than any other generation before them and are more caring about their fellow citizens, and they're less likely to be discriminatory towards people that don't look like them.
And these are all things that arise from having more connectivity, which is what social media provides for you.
The the government side goes on to say that it's easy to like miscommunicate over messages and over writing, but we don't think that this is like particularly unique.
Like many people still go and talk to each other face-to-face.
And then in communication prior to social media, through things like email or things like writing a letter, all of these things had the same problems, and we just don't think that this is a meaningful argument.
Then they bring in the idea that social media's become a political echo chamber, and this is totally fair.
And social media has become a political echo chamber, and we think that steps should be taken to allow for that to evolve and to change.
But also, we think that, first, this is relatively non-unique given that prior to the rise of social media, if you were a republican, you probably got the vast majority of your news from right-wing talk radio and from fox news, and if you were a democrat, you probably got the most of your news from MSNBC or CNN and places like the new york times or the washington post.
So, again, while it's true that the echo chamber has grown worse with social media, we don't think it is actually unique, and we think it's outweighed by the arguments that we've made already.
They say it's being used to spread information.
This might be true, but social media has also been used to bring to light stories that never would have been heard before and to do things like in , in the arab spring, to bring entire revolutions together.
So, again, while misinformation may be there, we think it is outweighed by the wide variety of stories that never would have come to light, from revolutionary tales in the middle east to simply tales of police brutality in the united states.
And then, finally, they argue that people are just trying to one-up each other and show their best selves and that most of the things that you see people post about themselves on social media are fake.
But, one: we think that, for most people, they don't actually post that much on social media ; and two: many people do talk about their problems on social media or share their challenges and their triumphs, and that's a genuine part of their experience that they want to share with others, and we think it does happen.
For these reasons, we should not abandon social media.