We should not increase the use of background checks.
So in order to narrow the debate, we're focusing on what the government side presented which was a model of allowing more private businesses to have access to background checks and normalizing it is a part of life.
Perhaps having public publicly available data bases where they're accessible to more people in the world generally.
So both in the business realm as well as in more personal areas making background checks more readily available.
So three arguments against this type of change.
First is that background checks are often used as a mechanism to inhibit social mobility.
Now while certain things to look into such as whether someone actually worked at the company that they say they worked for on a resume, whether it's something like giving a call to a reference, these types of background checks that are normal for businesses in the status quo and are not really subject to this debate those are totally reasonable.
But increasing background checks to look into for example the behavior of someone in their past, to look into their criminal record, to look into different offenses they have, to look into their interactions within their interpersonal relationships, we think that these are all things that can be used to inhibit social mobility.
For example, if you have a prior criminal conviction on your record it is already much more difficult for you to get a job and increasing the use of background checks exposing more and more flaws in people's lives to potential employers, to potential education opportunities, things like this.
We think it only makes it more difficult for people to crawl them out of their own past mistakes and everyone has these mistakes.
Everyone has instances in their past that they regret, that they would rather they had not done.
But background checks make those things incredibly visible even though they may have happened a long time in the past and oftentimes are not relevant to the job at hand.
And for these reasons we think that they're likely to be used to inhibit the existing to inhibit social mobility to an even further degree than it already is.
Secondly we think that there is a reasonable right to privacy whether this is constitutional or not that's something that is often hotly debated though current constitutional scholars say that there is a right to privacy and this is certainly the case if you look in places like europe where there's now a right to be forgotten online the right to privacy certainly exists in that political arena and we think that it should exist.
We think that in this current day in age in which people are being monitored in every which way, in which people have information about themselves posted across the board in various different areas, that we live in a time that's fundamentally different from any time before.
It means that all of our mistakes, all of our flaws, our thoughts from our past are open to the public to be viewed and to be discussed in a way that has never been the case before.
And we think that that makes it more difficult to progress in life.
It makes it more difficult to put your past behind you and we think that increasing the use of background checks especially in like a public sphere to have a database that's accessible to more average individuals we think that this type of thing only makes those mistakes only makes those past transgressions more visible.
It makes it more difficult to move on from and we think that having a right to privacy, a right to your own private thoughts, your own private life, to have certain things removed from the public view is something that any human being would want to have and is something that is fundamentally necessary in order for someone to live a life where they can evolve in they can progress.
For these reasons we should not increase the use of background checks.