We should not abolish open primaries in the united states.
In this round, we're gonna make four main arguments about the benefits of open primaries.
The first is that open primaries create a moderating effect that's good for all places involved.
What open primaries allow for is that it ensures that independents or even people from the other party can choose to vote in the primary if they see fit.
If they believe that those people in the party best represent their values or if they want to remain independent, it allows them to have a platform to voice their opinions.
We think that this is good for two reasons.
First, it's good for your party's success.
When you're not just allowing those that are in your party to vote but rather those from the wider audience to vote from the from the wider voting pool, it ensures that you're electing candidates that have a broader appeal.
If you're electing candidates that only appeal to your base, if primaries only dole out candidates that people within your party find attractive, you're not going to have a candidate that is able to appeal to everyone.
It means that when you go to a general election, you are less likely to win, you're less likely to have an actually electable candidate.
But secondly, we think that moderation is just good for america.
In an immensely divisive time like our current time, we think it's important that all people from all walks of life are able to participate in whatever primary they choose, and they're able to vote for the candidate that they think will best express their views.
And we think that pulling people closer to the center means that people are closer on different issues, they're more likely to compromise, and we think you're likely to get better governance.
Secondly, it's a more open democracy.
We think that any sort of opening of the democracy must be good.
The reason for this is that our country and the coercive apparatus that is the united states is is predicated on the idea that people have a say in their government.
It is government by the people.
And we think that increasing the amount of people that are able to participate by opening primaries to independents and by opening primaries to anyone that would like to vote ensures that that democratic process is a more inclusive one.
It's one that everyone is able to participate in, which means that the outcomes that you get are more representative of the actual views of the people.
It means that that " we the people " line in the declaration of independence is more likely to be fulfilled than you otherwise would have if you didn't have open primaries.
Thirdly, there are many districts without any sort of competitive opposition.
If you're a democrat voting in a red state or you're a republican voting in a blue state, it's oftentimes the case that the primary becomes the general election by default, because either your party of choice does not have a candidate running at all or because that candidate that's running is likely to get something like twenty percent of the vote, thirty percent of the vote.
They have almost no chance of actually winning.
Given that that is the case, we think that it is better that it is important that people are able to vote in the primary election, because that primary election is ultimately what's going to determine who's going to be your representative in your government.
And given that this is the case, if you had closed primaries everywhere, people were excluded from being able to participate in this process, there are many people that would, by default, not have the ability to have any say in who is governing them.
And finally, we think that open primaries broadly benefit independents.
There are many people that don't want to be partisan, that want to have an open mind and go in to each election to vote for the person and not for the party.
And we think that this should be applauded.
This is something that should be pushed forward, especially given the immense partisan divide that we see in the status quo.
Open primaries allow for those independents to have a say, to pick a party and to pick a candidate, despite their party that they support, and it ensures that they get to have their voices heard just as much as anyone else.
For these reasons, we should not abolish open primaries in the united states.