We should abolish homework.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think homework is on net a detriment to students and to the education system as a whole.
Firstly, let's talk about the pressure that modern children face in our day and age.
Modern children face the need to fill themselves with both extracurriculars for college as well as to do well in school and there's an immense amount of pressure to go to college in the status quo because college is seen as the gateway to success in your future.
College is seen as the way of getting a secure job.
It seems like it's the first step in becoming a real adult is going through college and on top of that, there's also immense pressure to get scholarships to pay for that college.
So it's not just that students need to do well enough to get into school, but it's that they need to do so well that they can get into school and pay as little money as possible with ever rising tuition costs.
This means that students need to both expend themselves academically and recreationally to get ahead and this is what we see just empirically, especially in countries where where college is so important to many people.
Let's look at for example a student that may have a full load of college level courses and their school AP courses, and in addition to that they may be doing an after school course class, and in addition to that they're a boy scout, and they're volunteering, and they do theater, and they do a sport, and they do all of these things to build up their resume to show colleges that they are well rounded.
But homework makes what is already an incredibly challenging task of balancing school and extracurriculars even more difficult especially in secondary school and high school because frankly, there's almost no coordination between teachers as to how much homework is going to be given out and there's often multiple hours of homework a night.
Especially for students that are in the highest level courses, they get an even higher level of homework and this compounds the fact that these are also often the students that are doing most the most extracurricular activities.
The need to do but you also need to do homework to maintain those good grades and to maintain your standing with teachers.
There's simply not enough time in the day to be a kid, let alone to get done both these extracurriculars and your normal schoolwork and they often have to sacrifice sleep or their own well being to and we don't think that this is the point of school.
We don't think that this is the point of education.
Secondly, we think homework is ineffective.
Now the idea of homework is that it reinforces the lessons from the day's class and that practice makes purpose perfect but there's a few problems with this.
First, too much homework means people rush through that homework to try and get it done because they just need to move on to the next thing and they don't actually internalize the lessons.
They just go through the motions and try and get as much done as they possibly can.
They just want to get it complete.
There's also larger problems that go against this idea of trying to reinforce the day's lessons.
Like the fact that there's in many countries an incredibly long summer vacation and long holiday breaks that are the real cause for students forgetting material.
In fact, in the united states the first month of every school of every new school year is basically spent recapping what was taught over the course of the last year and if students and if students don't understand the material in class, homework often leads them farther astray.
Doing the work the way that you think it's supposed to be done when you're doing it incorrectly because you didn't understand it the first time, only makes it less likely that you'll be able to learn it correctly moving forward.
We simply think that even if there is some sort of benefit to homework, even if it did impact and reinforce the day's lessons, we simply do not think that it is worth the massive amount of harm that it places on children both their mental in their emotional well being.
For these reasons, we should abolish homework.