We should further exploit sustainable energies.
So quickly a model for what we think this motion actually is about.
We ought to create subsidies for clean energy production, green energy production.
We have subsidized companies that produce that type of energy and we would also create subsidies and tax breaks for private corporations and households that became dependent on green tech or solely use green tech in their productions.
We think that this would lead to more adoption of these sustainable energies and we want to aggressively further exploit those.
So two big arguments.
The first is about global warming and the second is about the economic boom that sustainable energy creates.
So on global warming, we think it is undeniable that global warming is the biggest threat to humanity's survival in the next one hundred years.
There were a few things that we know are coming on the horizon and that we need to act aggressively in order to prevent the worse outcomes from occurring.
What are these types of things?
First, rising sea levels which not only have the impact of creating warmer waters and leading to more extreme weather weather conditions such as more extreme hurricanes and tropical storms that we've seen in the recent past create tremendous amounts of economic and human destruction.
But also when you have rising sea levels the areas that are most impacted by these rising sea levels our cities.
Countries have developed in such a way where cities are on large bodies of water, usually in coastal areas, and huge population hubs are in these areas.
That means that when these cities begin to flood and deteriorate, you have massive urban migration, massive human displacement, and massive economic collapse when the hubs of your economy start being under water.
The other thing that's likely to come is a lack of food because of increased heat waves and less regular seasons which means the production of food becomes much more difficult and a lack of clean water.
Both of these things we think are lead to are likely to lead to more conflict in the future not just destruction from our environment but also destruction from ourselves.
We are rapidly approaching the tipping point that is the point of no return.
We think that in order to make this change we need to act now and we need to act quickly in adopting sustainable energy.
We need to care about this for a few reasons.
First, our own survival but more importantly the survival of our children who we're forcing to come into this world people that did not have any desire to come into this world, no have nor have any responsibility for the harms that global warming are going to wreck on our environment.
We only have one planet and our species survival totally depends on ensuring that we don't ruin that planet in the next one hundred years.
Sustainable energy in the form of clean energy is essential to make this happen.
The CO two emissions, the methane emissions that we are currently producing are the reason for this global warming and sustainable clean energy that doesn't have these types of emissions will go a long way in preventing the worst possible outcomes.
Secondly, the economic boom.
We think that sustainable clean energy is already profitable and is only going to become more so in the future.
This doesn't require expensive clean energy doesn't require expensive and potentially harmful drilling and mining procedures.
Not only harmful to the environment but also harmful to the workers that are there in these dangerous environments.
Secondly, clean tech becoming more is becoming more and more efficient every year and there's a much faster rate of increased efficiency than coal or oil powered engines are able electrical generation are able to compete with which means that per energy created clean energy, green tech sustainable energy is going to become more and more valuable while oil and coal and these other type of fossil fuels remain stagnant.
We also think that there are new jobs in these developing fields whereas if you look at coal mining for example in recent years, there's a dramatic drop off in the amount of job opportunities which means that this is good not only for efficiency and not only for electrical output but also good for creating jobs.
We also think that these fields require more technical innovation and technological innovation which we think is likely to open up the development of new fields and even further jobs based on the need for that further tech.
We think that sustainable energy is the clear solution to one of the most significant threats that humanity faces and for these reasons, we should further exploit sustainable energy.