We should not protect animal welfare.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we don't think that the state should actively protect animal welfare.
So the first argument we wanna make is very straightforward.
We don't think that animals have any natural rights that we need to respect.
We think that when we think of the system a framework of rights that we actually live within, these are rights that are socially constructed rights created and given power purely by our participation in our societies.
We don't think that these rights are naturally derived or divinely derived and we think that if there was some sort of universal system of rights we have no special knowledge of that system and therefore what we create within our societies is a construct rather than anything that is a natural order and you can see this plain and clear when you actually look at the natural order of life.
If humans lived in a state of nature there would be no rights respection.
There would be no rights that are guaranteed towards people.
In the state of nature, in the natural world in which animals interact with us, these are these are instances in which there's no protections between species.
There's that's there's no guarantee of protection even from the earth itself.
There's no right to life in the natural world and we can see that rights as we construct them are meant for humans by looking at what rights we view as valuable.
Aside from the right to life, the right to free speech, the right to freedom of movement, the right to property, all these things are human specific.
All of these are things that matter within our societies and rights don't even confer across all societies.
In certain societies rights are different and in these aspects we recognize that the system of rights, in any system of rights, is entirely socially devised and animals are not part of that social system.
They don't participate in our social structures.
They don't have they're not the target of these rights.
We don't have any sort of of space for them in our societies outside of possibly pets.
But even when we do give animals rights we're doing so because of our own desire not to harm animals.
Things like rights for pet protection don't have to do with the level of sentience or the ability for those animals to feel anything.
A pig and a dog have the same level of sentience and the same level of intelligence but harming a pig is commonplace and harming a dog is a crime.
These are things that we construct because of our view of these animals not because of animals themselves.
It' because we want to satisfy ourself and when we're saying we should protect animal welfare, we don't think that there's anything about the animals themselves that dictate that we should do this and frankly animals are incredibly useful in our modern society.
On top of the fact that many of them are raised as chattel in order to feed our growing populations, they also are useful for getting different resources, for furs, for different types of medical testing we need to use animals, because of our expansion into more area and more land we drive animals away but we need the land in order to sustain our societies and we don't think that animals should be considered to be rights holders.
We don't think that their welfare should be considered when making decisions about the choices that are going to progress humanity.
Sure we shouldn't be outward outwardly cruel to animals, were fine with that, but we think that when they construct when they contradict with the desires of humanity, animal welfare and animal desire should not be weighed very heavily.
For these reasons, we should not protect animal welfare.