Hunting should not be banned.
Unsurprisingly in this round the government side has argued to you that this is cruel to animals and that this is harmful overall to those animals as a main point of their side.
But we think that overall animals simply don't have rights and that as far as hunting is concerned, as far as the pain to animals, whether or not you like it viscerally does not mean that you're violating any sort of right or doing anything outside of the natural scope of those animals lives.
So let's break that down.
Why do we think that animals have no rights?
Well firstly, we just don't think that natural rights exist.
We don't think that there are rights that can be divined from the universe or from the ethereal world around us that have any sort of meaning because for rights to be meaningful they need to be enforced in some way which to us means that rights exist mostly and entirely within the human sphere.
Rights are a construct that humans created for utilitarian purposes to protect humans, to designate certain things within society that are unacceptable and that must be protected and that within that sphere of existence, within our social spheres of existence, we have given those rights and those rights get power from the institutions that we live within.
Well recognize animals exist entirely outside of that sphere.
Animals are not a part of the construct that led to the creation of rights and therefore animals do not need to be included within that construct.
Some may say that this creates a slippery slope argument where you don't value certain human life as much as others but we think that that is ridiculous.
All human life exists within an inherently social sphere.
All human life is part of the construct that we are creating and therefore we think that it is unlikely that humans will be excluded just because we exclude animals.
Some may say this is arbitrary, but we think it is in fact quite clear that animals are just not a part of this society, they're not a part of our construct of rights.
They say the government side that says this is inhumane and the last moments of these animals lives is painful and harsh but this is literally nature.
Like think of like if you're hunting deer there are a couple of ways that that deer's life is going to end and most of them do not involve some sort of natural death.
Maybe they'll get eaten by different predator.
Maybe they'll get damaged in some sort of a storm where a tree falls on them but most of the ways that the average woodland animal's life ends is painful.
So we don't think we're doing anything that is outside of the norm of their lives with hunting.
They say that we don't treat dogs and cats this way so why would we treat deer and other animals this way?
Well, it's because of the purpose of human joy.
Because we we value dogs and cats in a different way, that is why we do this is.
Is it arbitrary?
No, it's how we've grown attached to them over literally millennia as opposed to how we've grown attached to other animals and because of that we don't think that and again overall if animals have no rights than whether or not it's arbitrary doesn't really matter.
At the end of the day, we could treat dogs and cats this way without facing any sort of ethical dilemma but we don't because we think they're cute and we want them as our pets.
They say that this makes people more violent and that once you start hunting animals you're more likely to be violent against people.
We think that this is congruent to the violent video games argument that video games make people more violent but there's no evidence of either of these things happening and oftentimes hunters value animals even more than the average person and try to care for their environment and care for animals more than others.
Finally, they say this is bad for wilderness preservation because we only preserve the animals in the environments that hunters care for but I don't see the alternative world having any sort of increased political will to protect other types of wilderness and given that that's the case, we don't think that there's any sort of real trade-off that makes this a winning argument for them.
For these reasons, hunting should not be banned.