We should not prohibit slum tourism.
We think that, ultimately, despite many valid arguments the government side brings up, that slum tourism has immense potential to improve the lives of the people that are in these slums.
The first thing that we want to point out, though, is that the model that the government side presents, we think, is just infeasible.
They say tourist countries should ban these types of behaviors, but we think it's impossible, in practical terms, to actually prevent people from traveling to the favelas of brazil in in real terms.
We think that people are still going to do this, even if it's under the table, despite what the government says, and so it's unlikely this policy will ever be effective and, therefore, should not be taken.
But disregarding that, let's get into their actual arguments.
The first argument they make is that slum tourism is degrading to the people in slums because they are being put on display.
He compares them to being put on display like zoo animals and that they have no choice to opt out of this, it's not like they choose to be in the slums.
We think that this is true.
We think that in many ways slum tourism can be degrading to people that live in these areas, but it also provides potential benefits to people in these areas.
For example, it opens up an entire tourism industry in the favelas of brazil, for example.
It allows them to have businesses that people will shop at.
It allows them to open their own tourist venues, and it allows for money to come into these areas where they otherwise would not be going there.
We think that this can allow for the social mobility that actually leads to long-term changes for the people in these areas.
And, yes, while in the short term, it may be degrading, we think that, ultimately, if at the end of the day there is the potential for economic mobility, it outweighs the short-term harm.
The second argument under this is that it undermines empathy in that people don't go on to help in the future.
It is absolutely true that many of the people that go to these areas and do slum tourism ultimately come out without making any sort of change.
But we think that it doesn't take an immense amount it doesn't take the majority of people to make change, it just takes a few dedicated people.
And while we think at the very at the very worst, this is probably a net neutral in empathy.
Even if you go in and leave and you do nothing, you probably wouldn't have done anything beforehand, but at least slum tourism provides the potential to bridge the empathy gap, an emplathy gap that has no other way to be bridged.
And we think many people, maybe not the majority, but many people do come home and at least for some time want to be active in trying to address the problems that are being created in these areas.
And we think that that is another way to provide some sort of mobility for these people.
If outside sources are willing to invest money in these areas, if they're willing to lobby their state to provide more funds to these countries, then we think that is, again, a net gain.
And while the degradation of slum tourism is a reality, we think that the actual harms that people face because they live in the slums vastly outweighs this and if we provide any sort of marginal gain against that, we think we win this round.
They say this provides a harm to traditional tourist industries, but we don't think this is a real tradeoff.
If I'm going to go pay to fly to brazil, if I'm going to do slum tourism, it doesn't mean I'm not going to go to the beaches of brazil and go and explore rio and do all these other fun things.
It just means I'm doing one other thing on my trip.
So we don't think that this is a valid tradeoff.
The final argument they make is that slum tourism is unsafe and that it's a waste of money to police these areas just to protect tourists.
Well, first, we think if it's true that these areas are unsafe, then it's probably good that more policing is being invested in these areas, because it also helps the people that live in these areas that there's more protection from the dangers in these areas for them as well.
But, ultimately, we don't think that it's necessary that governments make these choices.
We're fine with the government of these countries not spending on this and just allowing people to make the choice for themselves whether or not they want to take on the risk.
Ultimately, we think slum tourism is an avenue to mobility for people that really have no avenue in the status quo and for these reasons, we should not prohibit slum tourism.