We should abandon online dating services.
So in this round, we don't think that we're going to make these things banned.
We're not going to put some legislation forward that would ban online dating services.
We just think that the stance we need to take is that, as an individual, you should not use online dating services, that other ways of trying to find a potential match are better, and that online dating services are generally problematic.
So, two arguments under this: the first is about untrustworthy connections, and the second is that there're just better means of finding connections than through online dating services.
So, the one of the biggest problems with online dating service is that many of them are filled with false presentations, and what this means is that, online, you can pose as whoever you want, and people are able to put up profiles of themselves that match their best qualities or even match qualities that they wish they had within themselves in order to attract people of a certain type.
This is especially likely to happen on online dating sites because of that, because people have a certain type of person in mind they want to connect with, and they form a profile around that ideal rather than trying to just match with someone that is most likely to could be to be interested in the type of person they really are.
People go in with certain expectations and try and have those expectations met.
This is a compounding problem, where most profiles are fake or massively misleading.
This isn't just an issue with a few people going onto these sites and building out these erroneous profiles, but most people who go onto these sites, and not even out of erratic or or nefarious desires, but simply because they want to find someone that matches what they believe to be the best version of themselves.
You want to put out the best version of yourself you can think of and often exaggerate and massively hyperbolize those qualities about yourself.
This simply does not accomplish the goal of a dating site, which is to find someone that you're compatible with, that you could spend a long you you form a long-term relationship with.
These things don't don't meet those standards.
The other problem with these false presentations is they can be potentially dangerous.
People can do very bad things when they try and connect with someone through these online dating services, especially if you meet with someone in a private space, in a space where there aren't other people around.
And not having that background, aside from some online interactions, maybe a phone call ahead of time, can really put people in danger when these people put fake profiles up for nefarious purposes.
Given that this is the case, we think that there are just better alternative, safer alternatives, that people go for.
So, what are these other alternatives?
Well, firstly, if you want to be online, we think other online communities are probably better.
When you're not in a sphere where people are trying to put out a personality of themselves that matches a potential partner, but you're on an online forum for a community that you're interested in, or you're in a chat room or something like that, when you're in these types of communities, these are probably better online spaces for meeting a potential spouse or a potential partner because you already have a common point of interest, because you already are in common social spheres.
It's more telling of yourself than just putting a profile out there that you can lie about.
We also think that you can have connections through mutual friends.
What this does is allow other people, who know you well, to match you up with someone that is more likely to be someone that you connect with, because they have a more personal connection to you than these online dating services ever will.
You can also have a connection with people in a work space or a school.
There are many opportunities to learn people to to learn about people and to meet people in these settings, especially because these are the people that probably have common interests with you, because you're in these spheres, again.
And finally, you can connect with people through social groups.
If you're in school, if you're doing extracurricular, or if you're just an employed adult who's going out and going to certain clubs, or joining certain groups, or participating in certain rallies or political movements, these are all areas in which you can meet people, not necessarily go into with the idea of meeting people for a romantic encounter, but meet people nonetheless, who share interests with you, who you can have a background check on to know that they're safe and they're not nefarious, and who are much more likely to be compatible with you than whatever a dating site tells you.
For these reasons, we should abandon online dating services.