We should not fight nationalism.
We think that in debates about nationalism, people often conflate nationalism with fascism, with racism, with other exclusionary behavior.
But we think that, at its root, nationalism is a pride in where you come from, a close tie to your community and to the people within that community, and ultimately fosters a stronger identity of that aligns yourself with the utility of your nation and allows for a more productive society.
The first argument that the government makes is about domestic harms.
They say that people treat immigrants worse because they're viewed as the other, and then give the example of the US view on immigrants, with people like donald trump denouncing mexicans and muslims and all of these types of things.
So, four responses.
The first is that if you actually look at the comparative gains from nationalism, if you have a group that is a group of nationalist individuals or people that identify as nationalist, and they're more tied to their community, to their country, then we think that it outweighs the benefits to that group, if their point is true, outweighs the small the relatively small group of immigrants within that nation.
But more importantly, we think that the view of the nation is fluid.
Look at somewhere like the UK where the idea of their nation now involves things like a strong indian cuisine, or look at united states where everyone views themselves as an immigrant in one way or the other.
We think that nationalism does not necessarily mean that other cultures are not welcome but rather it's an identity and a pride in your state.
We also think that it's fine to give preference to your own citizens.
We actually think that the government has a strong obligation to do so, because the government is the one that's citizens are the ones that are having their freedoms constrained, that are having their money taken from them in the form of taxation, and so a nationalist bent for the government, a government that is more concerned about protecting and helping its own citizens is probably a good thing.
But finally, to address this argument about the US and how we treat immigrants, there's a difference between racism and nationalism.
For donald trump to call mexicans racist is not nationalist, it's racist.
To assume that all people who are muslim are terrorists is, again, not nationalist, it is racist.
And we are fine on side opposition denouncing racism, even when it is tied to nationalistic fervor and nationalistic dialogue, but we do not think that racism is a necessary part of nationalism and because of that, we think nationalism by itself is just fine.
The second argument they make under this is that you're more likely to exclude others if you're a nationalist.
Again, maybe this is true, but we also think that you're more likely to care for those within your borders, which creates a net gain in utility.
The final argument they make is that you can't criticize the government if you're a nationalist or you're less likely to do so, which is weird because they just used the example of the US as a highly nationalist state, but you also see that the approval ratings of the government, overall, on both sides of the aisle, are incredibly low.
What we think nationalism means is that you have a high standard for your government and you want to hold it to that high standard, which is why in many places with nationalism on the rise, you see people disapproving of their government, not failing to criticize it.
The last argument they make is about international harms, and essentially their argument boils down to if you're a nationalist, you're less likely to cooperate on the global level and that globalization will be hindered.
But there's no getting off the globalization train.
Our economies, our communities, our work forces are so interconnected on a global level, and the fact that those that are the most powerful, the wealthy in society, need things like trade and globalization in order to continue to build wealth, we think it's highly unlikely that, in a pragmatic sense, nationalism is ever going to hinder things like trade deals, things like international cooperation, and for these reasons, we should not fight nationalism.