We should protect edward snowden.
In this round were gonna make two main arguments about why we think it's crucial to protect edward snowden and to set a standard for future whistle blowers.
The first thing we want to talk about is about how the US government acted criminally and why that matters.
When considering criminality and in in this particular case considering the criminality of edward snowden it's important to consider the US actions and how snowden relates to them.
The US government clearly acted beyond its constitutional and legal limitations.
For example spying on its own citizens without a warrant, something that is blatantly unconstitutional, that edward snowden's whistle blowing revealed to us.
Also things like bulk data collection on its citizens, again without a warrant, something that is clearly against the laws as currently laid out.
And in addition to how it acted internally it also spied the US also spied on international allies, breaking the implicit norms that govern the international realm and breaking and to a degree breaking the laws of how they of how we act in the international world.
To justly punish snowden we think the state itself must be in the right and in this instance it clearly was not.
Snowden took a moral action in revealing this information, even at a potential cost to himself, and for that we don't think that edward snowden should be punished.
Principally we don't think you should punish snowden because while he may have acted criminally in a strict legal sense, he did not act criminally in terms of his of the impact of his actions.
When we think of criminality and the criminality of action there's usually some negative social or interpersonal impact that is derived from those actions.
But the negative social impact is derived not from snowden's act but from the information that the government acted in such an atrocious way.
It is that action that is at the root of the problem not snowden's revealing of that action.
And we certainly don't think that in a moral sense he behaved in any problematic way.
So we don't think it would be just to punish edward snowden in in in this instance and for that reason we should protect him.
But generally secondarily we think that we should protect whistle blowers generally.
Even if you think snowden is bad and horrendous we think it's generally a good idea to ensure protections for whistle blowers and we shouldn't make some sort of arbitrary exception for snowden.
States have time and again shown throughout their history that they are willing and able to act beyond the boundaries of the law.
When the state violates those constraints, the legal and constitutional constraints that exist, it goes beyond the actions that the people have agreed to and becomes simply an unjust cartel abusing its apparatus.
If the state is acting outside of what has been given by the people as state authority there's no distinction between that and a large bully ruling over the people within its borders.
We think the state is also clearly aware of this fact and the fact that these acts are abusive as well, otherwise there would be no reason to try and get to to not try to get the legal authority to take these actions in the light of whatever parliamentary body we're talking about.
In this instance it would be the US congress.
If the state believed, if the united states believed that what it was doing was something that the people would consent to and it's something that is fully just then there's no reason that the FBI and the CIA in our in our spying apparatus would just allow representatives to vote and give this authority.
But clearly that's not something that was going to be given by congress because the people would not have allowed it.
Whistle blowers are crucial in striking down government corruption, informing the public of crucial information that that helps it decide how to vote and how to act in a political sense.
We should have strong protections for these whistle blowers and naturally this covers snowden as well.
For these reasons we should protect edward snowden.