We should end cheerleading.
When we're talking about ending cheerleading, we're not saying that the government needs to ban it, we're not saying that it's something that needs to have an explicit prohibition against it, we just think that as a society we should end the practice of cheerleading.
So let's talk about why.
We think that cheerleading is a largely antifeminist and antifemale activity.
We think that what this means is that for the vast majority of people in society given that half of people are women we think that this activity demeans them in ways that is unacceptable and that as a society we should move on from.
So let's talk about what those ways are.
Firstly we think that cheerleading is a largely female activity so that's why we think that this a largely impactful thing that has to do with women and that we think it was created through the male gaze as a hypersexualization of women and you can just see this empirically when we look at the practice of cheerleading.
Cheerleading is women putting on scantily clad clothing going out there and cheering and cheering at sporting events during halftime and breaks in order to enjoy the largely male audience that are at these events and it's a way of hypersexualization women it continues a historic trend of hypersexualization and objectification of women that we view these women exclusively for their bodies rather than rather than what they're actually doing while they're cheerleading and this is massive because it overlooks the work that cheerleaders actually put into cheerleading because when we say that cheerleading is anti is antifeminist and antiwoman it's not that cheerleading itself is something that isn't impressive that the act of acrobatics and dance and the the use of working with a team that comes cheerleading all those things are incredibly impressive but none of those things are respected by the audience that's viewing cheerleading because they're their for a different event and this is hugely problematic in tangible ways mainly in the fact that as professionals, cheerleaders are dramatically underpaid based on the hours they put in in order to be a professional cheerleader to cheer at a sporting event for professional sports team that's something that takes hours and hours of work to get your routine right to get your physical fitness to be up to its peak to get your body in the best shape possible all those things and it's a largely neglectful industry that harms the cheerleaders.
People that put in the work of cheerleading often have to do other jobs in addition to being cheerleaders just to make ends meet.
We think that given that this is that a large reason for this harm is because cheerleading is created through the male gaze that it's not viewed as something that is respectable or important or impressive and therefore it's undervalued.
We also think that cheerleading symbolically subjugates women.
Cheerleading is done is done at mostly male sporting events.
The objects of this is that women are sitting on the sideline while the action is happening cheering for their male counterparts and come on during the break to root for their male sports players.
We would prefer a world in which women are able to be the ones that are being celebrated even if doing dance is what they want to do there are other ways to express that and celebrate the hard work in female achievement that comes through cheerleading.
In the status quo, it sends the signal to society and especially at schools where cheerleading is happening that condones this type of subjugation.
It says that this type of power dynamic, the one in which women are sitting on the sideline cheering for men, is a power dynamic that we want to have taught to our children and that we want to pass on to our society.
We think that the government in the state has a clear interest in preventing this and that as a society we don't want our we don't want half of our population to feel subjugated, to feel lesser than, to feel like they are supposed to be on the sidelines while men go out and achieve.
We think that this is a repetition of horrible past historical injustices that we must undo and that while cheerleading is only a part of the problem it is undeniably a part of the problem and that we should avoid it in our societies.
For these reasons we should end cheerleading.