We should not increase the use of personalized medicine.
In this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think increasing personalized medicine would be problematic.
The first is that we think there's a clear lack of funding and infrastructure to make this increase possible.
Personalized medicine requires immensely more people in particular medical groups and specializations and professions and requires things that doctors, current doctor, simply do not have understandings and medical training that current doctors do not have.
There's also additionally a a lack of regulatory capacity.
When you have a number of different personalized approaches to medical care and taking different types of medical treatment and using new medical treatment based on data gained by genetics, all these things all occurring over a wide swath of the population, it's incredibly difficult to regulate these things and when it comes to something like medical care, we think regulation is necessary to ensure public protection.
In addiction in addition to a lack of infrastructure this also requires expensive testing that increases medical costs in the short term which leaves many people out in the cold.
We think that moving to this system could leave the least well off with subpar medical care especially if those that are the best doctors go into these fields because these fields have a higher potential for earnings and advancement things like that.
Secondly, we think that extra information that you get from this medical care leads to ethical dilemmas.
Genetic testing which is a very prominent form personalized medical care is something that is something that's very common but it provides way more information than someone may be looking for when they're just going to get a diagnosis, when they're just going for a physical.
For example your genetics can -min can allow you to know that you have a propensity for a large amount of different diseases, something that you didn't want to know when you went to the doctor's office.
You just wanted to find out why your throat hurt, why your stomach hurt.
It can also tell you things like ancestral data and can reveal to you information about your past that could lead you to have the worst understanding about your ancestors or it can lead you to a skewed view of who you are as a person.
There's also tons of data that can impact one's family as well because for example: if I as an individual have a higher propensity genetic propensity for something like alzheimer's, this is something that my brothers and my family also probably have.
Now this leads to a situation with doctors there are no parameters for how caregivers are supposed to respond to these instances.
There's no ethical there's no ethical lay out for you as a doctor of how you should tell a patient that came in for a sore throat that they're probably going to get alzheimer's in their future and that their father their person that people believed to be their father is not their genetic father and it's but if you don't share that information you're holding back a ton of information that that could be crucial to one's life.
It's a lose lose situation and something that we don't think ethically has been set up well for moving forward and certainly not well enough that we can increase personalized medicine.
Finally, there's the issue of data from gene testing.
We think there there are obviously large amounts of data that's collected in gene testing and oftentimes this type of testing requires people to sign away their rights to their own genetic code which means that gene banks can store huge amounts and huge samples of of gene pools of genetic codes and are able to use that information and profit off of it.
We think it's problematic that people who are just going in for simple medical care are having their entire genetic code being profit off of being profited off of, being used in further experiments without their consent.
This is what makes someone, fundamentally in a very literal sense, who they are and we think they should have control over that information but that's something that's very difficult to have with personalized medicine.
For these reasons, we should not increase the use of personalized medicine.