The energy industry should not be nationalized.
In this round, we're going to make three main arguments about why we think that the status quo in which private companies provide energy and are the the foundation of the energy industry is preferable to a system in which those private companies are gobbled up by a government monopoly.
And we think that's the real the real debate here, and we want to talk about the benefits of having private competition versus government monopoly.
Because when you have private competition, you have a natural pressure to lower prices.
You have a natural pressure to provide goods at the lowest cost possible in order to ensure that you are competing at the best rate to ensure that you have as much business as possible compared to other competitors.
But if you have a private nationalized system, while there's no longer a profit incentive and that might be beneficial in some regards, it also means that there's no longer an incentive to provide this at the lowest cost possible, because you don't have to compete.
Everyone is still going to be coming for energy no matter what and we think that this means that, in reality, there's no massive incentive to drive down prices.
Rather, what we think you have in a nationalized industry is an incentive to create as many jobs as possible, because when you create jobs as a politician, as a national as a public as a public company, that means that you can then sell your constituents on the fact that you are providing jobs to them, which means we actually think you get a less efficient, less cost-effective energy industry.
What it means is that whereas in a private corporation, you're free you're free to fire employees, you're free to cut costs, you are free and able to do things that are not going to be particularly popular with the general public but things that for the better good, for the greater good, things that give you lower energy costs, that create more efficient systems, you're willing to take those make those decisions, but if you're a nationalized energy industry, you don't have that same flexibility.
You have government government officials that want to brag to their constituents about job creation and vice versa, certainly don't want to remove jobs because that would show them to be taking jobs from their community.
So we think that having a private industry is much more likely to be efficient and lower costs, but we also think that the government should just have a a reduction in size more broadly.
We think that when people come into the state, they don't do so through their own consent.
They're largely just born into that state, and they have no ability to opt out of the laws or structures that confine them within that state.
And because of that, we think that the government should be as little should be as little of an obtrusion on people's lives as possible.
We think that the government should rather exist to facilitate free activity, whether it's free activity of individuals or to create a free market that allows for different households and corporations and municipalities to barter and to trade on an open and free market which allows them to make decisions of what they need best.
It allows for an efficient market to be created, to lower costs.
We think that, overall, when the government takes over, when the government becomes larger, it becomes a system that is more more obtrusive on people's lives, and it creates a system that is more overbearing to a system that already does not have meaningful consent and should exist primarily to only facilitate freedom.
For these reasons, the energy industry should not be nationalized.