We should not end mining.
Until the day comes where our society's advanced technologically far enough where we can do things like astro-mining and go into space to secure the resources that we desperately need for our society we cannot simply end mining.
So two main reasons for this: the first is that there is a massive need for resources that mining provides.
Recognize that mining is an industry one of the oldest industries that our technology has allowed us to develop.
Mining provides immensely valuable resources not just metals not just simple metals and not just simple products, but it also provides things like rare earth metals that are required for most of our technological advancement.
Recognize that we already have a shortage of much of the supplies that we need for things that are basic in our world today things like computers, things like smartphones, things that keep our economies and our businesses running.
If you were to ban mining altogether we think you would significantly stagnate our advancement and our economies because it's not just a matter of replacing it with recycling materials that already exist, but rather it's a matter of growing with the new with growing as more people are able to access that technology as our economies stretch wider out and employ more and more people in technological sectors, improve the lives of more people, and ultimately as our technology scales up to require more in these resources moving forward.
We think that ending mining is something that would simply cause us to take a step backward in future years as far as our advancement as a society, the ability to use technology to improve people's lives, and something that is not viable.
We also think that it's just a huge sector for jobs in the status quo and ending mining right now will put a large amount of people out of work, it would make their lives meaningfully worse and most of the arguments in favor of ending mining have to do with protecting worker's rights.
So let's talk about how we can mitigate the harms that the other side may bring up.
First, we think that first and foremost when it comes to protecting the people that are actually doing these jobs, people can choose not to go into mining.
People have meaningful choices over the jobs they do in their life.
Yes, maybe they don't always have the best choices.
Maybe they're choosing between jobs that may not pay very well or jobs that don't provide a lot of benefits, but when you have when you're in the job market for the vast majority of people there is an option that is an alternative to mining and if there isn't, if there are literally no other jobs, we think that's a larger issue than simply ending mining altogether and that if you were to end mining, it would just put those people in a position where they literally cannot be employed.
When it comes to things like harms to the environment, we also think you can limit where people mine.
Just because you don't end mining all together doesn't mean you can't put restrictions in place to protect habitats and environments that are currently being harmed and you can also monitor for environmental impact of mining moving forward.
We also think that moving back to people quickly, you can place limits on work hours.
You can ensure that people that are actually holding these jobs aren't being worked incredibly long hours.
You can put restrictions in place to improve the conditions of workers well.
You can set standards for working conditions, something that we actually have been doing historically, and it's the reason why in the status quo deaths from mining and diseases from mining are at an all time low because in the last one hundred, one hundred and fifty years of human history we've evolved and we have learned how to put restrictions in place to help workers in these situations.
In the in general, ending mining is something that would cause massive economic and social harm moving forward.
We don't think it's acceptable nor do we think it's viable, and for these reasons, we should not end mining.