We should increase student financial aid in the united states.
We think the form of this financial aid would be multipart.
First, there would be loans that have zero interest, so they would be loans that do need to be paid back over time but do not have any sort of accumulating interest, so it's just essentially a deferred payment system.
We also think that there should be more grants given to students, that we should vastly expand the amount of money that's dedicated to just letting people go to college, that it's not a loan.
It doesn't follow you through the rest of your life.
It's straight up aid that allows people to move on once they've graduated from college.
Three reasons: first, college has gotten far too expensive.
Looking over past decades, when someone went to college in, say, the early nineteen eighties, they weren't leaving college with the equivalent of a hundred thousand, eighty thousand dollars in debt just to go to a four-year university.
Universities cost a fraction of what they did today and because of that, people were able to take out modest loans, were able to take on side jobs.
Many people were able to go to college and entirely pay for it out of pocket only by going out and getting some sort of additional job on the side, and these are things that are simply not possible today.
For the vast majority of students that want to attend a high quality university, they're forced to pay fees around forty to fifty thousand dollars each year just to attend university, and that's money that is not a reasonable expectation for people to pay.
But college is also a fundamental requisite to getting a high-paying, high-skill job in the future.
So it's not like students can just say, " oh, I'm going to pass up on college.
I don't want to do that.
I don't want to take on the burden, " because it means that over the course of your life, you're not going to get as good of jobs.
You're not going to be put in positions where you can succeed and be financially stable and do well for yourself and your family.
So it's a trap that we put students in, and that trap has impacts that are both problematic for students and the economy.
First, for students.
Clearly, you're just unable to save for the future.
If you have to make a one thousand dollar a month loan payment every month when you're just getting out of school on top of, for example, doing things like paying rent and paying for groceries, there's no money left over on the average entry level job salary in order to actually save money for yourself.
And so there's no way for you to save for your future until, in many instances, you're thirty, thirty five.
It's way later than it should be if you want to retire at a reasonable age.
It's also you're children are also unable to explore professional avenues that don't pay well meaning that good jobs like teaching, like volunteering, like public advocacy, these are things that are entirely outside of the realm of what these students can do simply because they're burdened with the debts of their graduation.
And they're also just simply unable to enjoy post-graduation life.
We've gone from a situation in which one's early twenties used to be a time for them to explore, to travel, to do all sorts of things, to live a life of a person that has some money.
And now it's become a time in which people just need to work and pay their loans, and work and pay their loans, and that is a drag that is unfair given that students are forced into these situations to begin with.
But additionally, college loan debt just hurts the economy writ large.
If students don't have the money to spend because they're paying off their loans, it means that money isn't going to the economy.
It's not going into things like buying homes and cars and other luxury goods.
If you look at recent criticism of the millennial generation, for example, it's that millennials don't spend money.
It's that millennials don't invest.
It's that there is stagnation on the economy, and it's not like this is just because people don't want these things.
It's because they literally cannot spend this money because that money is otherwise going to paying off student loans from the last ten years.
This is a clearly unjust system, and if we're going to force kids or highly incentivize kids to go to college, we should at least give them the funds to do so.
And for these reasons, we should increase student financial aid in the united states.