We should not fight for palestinian independence.
So, we think it's important to recognize that when you say you're going to fight for palestinian independence, it necessarily contradicts the existence of israel.
Let's look at how palestine's behaved towards israel since israel became a state.
Yes, we recognize that it may not have been wholly just that colonial powers were able to strip the land from palestinians and give it to jews.
But, these are people that went through a tremendous amount of historical damage and were due historical reparations not just for the holocaust, but for centuries of persecution.
And we think that while it may have been a burden on this group of people, this group of people didn't have to move out of the state entirely.
They didn't have to be antagonistic towards this group of people, but yet they choose to be so.
They chose to try and undermine the ability for the jewish people to have a state.
Not only did palestinians do this, but they brought in allies from across the region to try and undermine the israeli state.
And even to this day, in negotiations that have tried to come to some sort of a resolution between israel and palestine, palestinians have refused to budge on their on their perch that they deserve to get their land back.
We think that palestinian independence would bolster a state that wants to undermine israel's existence, and we think that israel deserves to be able to exist.
The state that currently exists removing that would uproot the the lives of millions of people, families, and communities, and only recreate the harm that palestinians are feeling.
So we don't think that giving palestinian independence and undermining israeli independence is going to create some sort of net benefit to society or net gain.
We think that palestinians want to entirely remove israel.
They're not they're not willing to take a step back from that.
Given that that's the case, we think that palestinian independence is fundamentally an existential threat to israel.
But we think that, stepping back from this particular case, that there's a problem with excessive independence movements and secession movements.
We think that, across the globe right now, we're seeing secession movements rise up.
In the united kingdom and spain, in parts of asia, there are many areas in which people want to secede from the state.
We think that this is problematic because while people should have the right to self-determination and the right to self-government, the ability for people, as a group, to split off from the state entirely, we think, undermines the state's ability to actually serve the public good.
If the state has to worry about problematic, not problematic but about controversial decisions literally tearing groups of people out from that state, we think that there's no way that you can have progress as a society.
It means that you're stuck and stagnant in the situation that you're currently in.
It also means that, in many instances, that people can flee away with resources that should be due to the public.
For example, in catalonia, in spain, a secession movement would do a tremendous amount of damage to to spain as a whole, because a large amount of revenue would be getting taken away.
So we think, as a principle, there's a better there has to be a middle ground between a secession, an independence for a group of people, and allowing the state to have control over its borders, to have control and to be able to have a functioning state apparatus in these areas.
And finally, we just think that israel is not that bad.
We think that, yes, there is conflict between these groups but for most of the history, we think that palestinian has been that palestine has been the antagonist in these battles and that israel's still done things to try and build up the the to try and build up the palestinian people, from giving them technology, and to giving them medical aid, and to giving them resources to build up, infrastructure to allow for the PLO to exist.
We think that israel has not done a tremendous amount of bad and that the palestinian people can live prosperously under israel, but that independence would mean that the same cannot be said for the israeli people.
For these reasons, we should not fight for palestinian independence.