We should not abolish the american jobs act.
Now, we recognize that the american jobs act never actually passed, but we're going to work in a world in which we are going to assume that it did pass, and we're gonna talk about the benefits of what that act would have done.
First, it provides a boost to the lower class through tax cuts.
Many of the many of the programs that were included in the american jobs act were things that cut taxes for the very poorest amongst us.
The benefit of this is that it ensures that people have more spending money and it ensures that the jobs that people are able to get go further.
Because there's not just a problem of unemployment in the united states, but there's also a problem of underemployment in which people are working less than they otherwise would be able to.
They're working at worse-paying jobs, they're forced to take on multiple jobs in order just to make ends meet, and we think that these tax cuts are beneficial not just because we think that these people need them the most, but it also means that it spurs the economy.
It means that there's more spending money to put out there that isn't going into paying taxes, and these taxes can be made up for from more economic productivity and more economic activity that comes with the other act.
The second thing that the jobs act did was create immense budgets for infrastructure.
And this is something that the united states desperately needs.
The united states lags behind the world in infrastructure development.
Whether that's public transportation systems, whether that's our highway systems, whether that's our airports, our infrastructure in the united states lags behind the rest of the world.
And given that this is the case, we think that any sort of increased spending for infrastructure would be a boon to the economy because it means that people are more easily able to get from place to place.
It makes it easier to travel long distances for a job.
It makes it easier for those jobs to transport goods.
And it also means that when you're creating that infrastructure, there's a lot of employment opportunities because you need people to build the infrastructure.
There's also more benefits to schooling.
There's more money provided to improve and modernize public schools in order to train people in order to actually get jobs.
It made it so that the education you're getting at in high school made it more likely that you were qualified for a job right out of high school.
And this is important given the immense amount of debt that it requires for many people to go to college.
It's important because it allows those that simply aren't interested in college to get high-paying jobs or to at least get well-paying jobs, jobs that are able to support them.
And finally, it bars unemployment discrimination.
It means that people and businesses are unable to discriminate simply because you not you've not held a job.
And this is a huge problem in the status quo because many employers look at unemployment as a as a negative.
It looks at something that you've done, that you didn't go out there and find a job, that you didn't go out there and work harder, that you were released and you couldn't find anywhere else to go.
And the longer that you're unemployed, the more likely that people look at these gaps on your resume as something that's an indictment of your personal character.
But barring that unemployment discrimination means that people are more likely to actually go out and after long-term unemployment, go and find jobs.
The combination of these four things, the the lower taxes, the increased infrastructure, the better schooling, and the increased the barring of unemployment discrimination, we think would lead to a huge boon for the economy.
It would mean there's more qualified workers.
It means there's more people that are able to get jobs, and there's more people that are able to spend money in order to boost the economy.
All of which we think the united states desperately needs.
For these reasons, we should not abolish the american jobs act.