We should further exploit wind turbines.
When we say that we're going to further exploit wind turbines, we mean that we think that the government should subsidize the production of wind turbines through private companies and that as a population, as a nation, we should seek to further use wind turbines for our production of energy.
Two big reasons.
The first and most important is that global warming is coming and we need to quickly shift to green technology such as wind turbines.
Global warming is likely the biggest threat that humanity will face in the next one hundred years of its existence.
It could be a fundamental turning point and how human beings exist and it could cost the lives and likely will cost the lives if left unchecked of millions and millions of people.
Let's look at some of the biggest impacts of global warming.
First, global warming is going to lead to rising sea levels that are going to destroy economic hubs and cities.
The big problem is that most of our major economic centers on the globe, think of most major trade cities, these all exist on the ocean because those are those have always been the cities that had been the best for resource trading, for exchange and for trade.
We think that when you have rising sea levels, it ultimately is going to lead to the death of many people but also it's going to cost millions and possibly billions of dollars in economic damage to these regions when people have to shift further inland and these cities that have been our hubs need to be abandoned.
There's also going to be more extreme weather events and we've seen over the last ten years in increase in events such as hurricanes and typhoons and tsunamis.
These things are only going to get both more populous so there's going to be more and more of these things but they're also going to be more destructive because as ocean water warms it means that the storms that get created from that ocean water ultimate ultimately end up being more powerful, they last longer, they're more sustained over land, and that causes the destruction that we've seen especially let's just look in the last few months in places like puerto rico places like georgia places like louisiana and houston and places like haiti.
And finally, global warming is going to lead to a lack of food and clean water.
The reason for this is that as global warning occurs, seasons begin to change which makes growing periods more and more irregular and leads to smaller food yields.
But additionally, when the wolrd when the world continues to warm, it means that our fresh water resources are more likely to evaporate and ultimately end up in the ocean meaning that we're going to have less clean water available.
And we're rapidly approaching the tipping point of no return.
We need to make a change immediately if we're going to stave off the worst impacts of global warming.
We can't wait ten years, we can't wait five years.
We need to make shifts dramatically away from fossil fuels if we're going to if we're going to ensure not only our survival but the survival of future populations and our children who never opted into this situation, who did nothing to earn this situation.
Not only is wind not only are wind turbines beneficial because they provide green energy but they also provide green energy in an efficient way that doesn't have some of the trade offs like nuclear energy which causes you know obviously nuclear waste or hydrothermal energy in the sense that wind energy and wind turbines can be used in vastly more places than hydrothermal can.
But even if you don't care about global warming, we think that wind turbines are just economically good.
First, wind turbines are a growing industry and they have even more room for growth.
Unlike fossil fuel industries that have already been spread out are drilling drilling missions already vast there's so much more resources that can be put into wind turbines and there's so much more economic gain that can come from them.
And the jobs are also fairly high paying because they require specialization.
They're not just jobs that any replacement worker could do and once these wind turbines are constructed there's less input costs than fossil fuels which means you get a lower cost of energy per kilowatt produced which means not only do you have cleaner energy that is good for the environment and good for humanity, but it's also cheaper energy which is good economicly.
For these reasons, we should further exploit wind turbines.