We should not subsidize adoptions.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we don't think it's necessary or useful to subsidize adoptions.
First, we want to talk about the principle of giving out a subsidy.
We think that if this type of thing is principally unjust, if it's something that, in principle, you should not be able to do as the government, then clearly we don't think it's something that's within the boundaries of government to actually pull off.
So, recognize that a subsidy is simply a use of public funds to promote some sort of private focus.
When we subsidize an industry or when we subsidize a practice or something like adoption, we're allowing people, private individuals, to use to do something that currently isn't being done to the to the level that we would want.
But we think that what's important to recognize is that those public funds are largely taken without full consent of the people.
The form of taxation is how you get these sort of public funds.
And when you're taxing individuals, you don't have really an opt-out system as a person.
If I, as a citizen of the united states, say, " I don't really feel like paying my taxes this year.
I don't feel like giving money to the government, " I don't have any sort of choice over that.
In order for the subsidy to be just, therefore, we think a few things need to be met.
First, we think that people need to be able to gain back from that subsidy at an equal level.
We think that all people are equally deserving of the resources that they paid into.
And so, if you're going to subsidize something, it must be something that's just accessible to many people, that if anyone wanted to do it, they could do the thing that is being subsidized, that it's something that is easily accessible.
But we don't think that's the case with adoptions.
Look at look at it this way: even if you subsidize the adoption process, you still need to actually care for the child that you're adopting.
You need to be able to take on that burden and that responsibility, and so we don't think that this thing, while maybe in name it's something that is accessible to many, in practice it's simply not the case.
And we don't think it does sort of a large public good, because when someone is adopted, that benefit accrues to, obviously, the person being adopted and the family, but there's no sort of larger public good that comes to it.
And finally, we don't think that this is going to lead to meaningful change.
The reason for that is that we don't think that people who would adopt are not adopting the status quo.
We don't think that people getting a subsidy is going to meaningfully increase.
It's not going to be the meaningful tipping point about whether or not you choose to choose to adopt a child rather rather than having a child yourself.
And so, if this isn't going to lead to some sort of meaningful, measurable change, we don't think it's worth actually subsidizing it.
Because if it's not going to create a benefit, we think that because tax money is a fungible resource, because you can only give away so much government money and spend so much government money on certain projects, we think that it can be used better in other areas.
Obviously, adoption is good, but this isn't the meaningful tipping point, and we think the cost of children is just so high that it's not going to get people to do this in the future.
We think that other expenditures just help people and help the public more broadly.
Look at things like education and infrastructure.
These are things that in recent american history have been crumbling, have not been doing as well to promote the public good.
And these are things that accrue benefits almost equally over all people.
If I improve infrastructure, it helps businesses.
It helps people every day that are trying to build jobs, that are trying to raise a family, that want to enjoy the state that they live within.
We think that these things are much more easily done through a subsidy and since there is this tradeoff, we think that it would be better spent to give whatever subsidy we would give to adoption, instead, to these other areas.
For these reasons, we should not subsidize adoptions.