We should not abolish zoos.
So, I recognize that there are a lot of people that intuitively believe that animals are deserving of rights, that as sentient and living beings they deserve to have some sort of rights given to them, but what I'm going to do is explain firstly, that animals do not have rights, and that if they did have rights, these are certainly a lower form of rights, to which the response should not be abolishing zoos, at the expense of human pleasure, but rather to reforms zoos.
So,we think that, no matter whether you think that animals do or do not have rights, abolishing zoos is not a good decision.
So firstly, why do animals not have rights?
The first thing that we want to point out is that human rights are constructed.
So, the rights that we use in our legal systems, in our cultures, in our societies, while sometimes inspired by our belief in the divine, or some sort of universal good or bad, these are things that are designed within our social constructs, that they are defined within our societies, they are enforced within our societies, and the nature of those rights is that they are reciprocal.
So, the reason that rights are applied to me is because, when they are applied to me, there's an expectation that I will apply those onto others, and we can see that when you violate that reciprocal nature of rights, your rights themselves are stripped.
This is why, when people do something that violates the laws in a moral way, in a way that infringes on other people's rights, they're put in jail, and in jail their rights are restricted to a similar capacity.
The reason for this is that they violated that reciprocal obligation, that is where rights are derived from, from an individual agent.
Animals clearly cannot respond to this this reciprocal obligation.
Animals have no means of respecting the rights of other individuals, and they have no means of internalizing the importance of the rights, if they were made right bearing entities, which means they can't: one, value the rights that are being given to them, because they don't know that they're being given, and two, they can never respect the rights of other individuals, which is how you are given rights, as a rights bearing agent.
Given that these things are the case, we simply do not think that animals have rights in the in a way that is meaningful.
We think that it's potentially the case that we give animals rights, because it's preferable to us, because we don't want to see animals suffer, and we think that, you know, sentient beings, even if they're a lower cognitive capability, still don't deserve to suffer.
What we'd say to that is that, if that is the case, which we don't contend, but if it is, you should still reform rather than abolish.
The reason for this is twofold: firstly, we think that regulations are easily possible.
We think it's easy for countries to institute regulations that give larger cages to animals, when they're in confinements, to give them good food, and to give them living conditions that a reasonably replicate the conditions that they have back home.
We think there are a number of reforms you can make, that ensure that when animals are in zoos, they're not being abused, they're not being harmed, and they're able to have fun lives.
And there are also a number of benefits that zoos bring: firstly, they allow people to connect to animals, in a way that just isn't possible anywhere else, and we think this is important, because that type of close connection that you conform to an animal, just being able to reach out and almost touch them, is a way to build empathy, to see them as real living beings, and to make it more likely that people will care for animals in the future.
So, if you think animals have rights, and you think that they deserve to be respected, we think you're more likely to get rights people that respect the rights of animals, if they're able to come in close contact with them, which can only happen through zoos.
We also think that people simply like these zoos.
People gained immense amounts of enjoyment, of pleasure from these things, and if you put the regulatory practices in place, that ensure that these animals aren't harmed, we don't think that there's a trade off, between respecting the rights of animals, and respecting the rights of people.
People still have this right, to be able to form their businesses, to operate a profitable business, and to put forward a product that people will enjoy, and if you put the regulations in place, so that it's unlikely that animals will be harmed in zoos, we think that there's an easy way to allow human pleasure to exist without animal pain.
But more importantly, given that people do enjoy these zoos, and given that animals, as we explained cannot be rights bearing entities, we think that human pleasure outweighs any animal pain, and for those reasons, we should not abolish zoos.