We should privatize the national parks.
So, we think that the way that this privatization would likely work is not just to sell the land that currently exists for national parks.
No, we're going to keep national parks existing as they are, but we're going to give contracts to different companies to run those national parks, to private actors, that they can bid, they can offer their services at a certain fee, those services can be assessed, and then we can as a the government can then give those contracts to whom they deem most worthy.
We think you're going to have to maintain the same standards of preservation.
There's still going to be government oversight to ensure that private actors are behaving appropriately but we think, overall, privatization would do immense good for national parks, firstly, because privatization breeds competition.
In order to obtain government contracts, private firms need to be both efficient and low cost, because if you do the job at a lower cost and at a higher efficiency, you stand out from other firms that you're competing against.
This means that there's also an incentive to get more people into these parks in order to profit.
If you have more people coming to these parks paying some small fee, we think that it's more likely that you as a firm will profit, which means that you're incentivized to do things like advertising parks that are less well-known.
It's you're more likely to do things like try and get people to use underutilized resources.
And, yes, while parks like the grand canyon national park in yosemite are visited by millions of people each year, there are thousands of national parks within the united states, and the vast majority of them are very rarely used, are very rarely visited.
We think that parks are currently being underutilized.
We want people to spend more time in these areas, to take advantage of them, because it's not just the ability to escape into nature and to get more in touch with our natural environment, to see the beauty of the world that exists around us, but it's also to take advantage of historic sites.
Many national parks exist as historic locations, and these are and these are areas in which people can learn about their history.
They can have a better understanding of the past.
They can grow more connected with their ancestors.
We think that all of these have a general benefit to people's well-being, to their knowledge, to their empathy, and to their understanding of the world they live in.
We think there are also a number of issues with the status quo that would likely be solved by public firms: firstly, the crumbling infrastructure that exists in many national parks.
As I mentioned, these are often historic sites, and these historic sites need to be preserved.
It's not just protecting the environment, but it's also protecting certain monuments, certain structures.
We think that private actors are more likely to put in the work that's needed to fix these crumbling infrastructure, because if you have crumbling infrastructure, no one is going to want to come to your park.
If you if you can't sell something to the public, then there's nothing that you can advertise.
There's no way to get a profit off of what you're doing and because of that, we think that these things are more likely to be kept up in high condition.
You also see a system in the status quo that has increased pollution and increased water pollution, in particular, but again, keeping pristine nature of these national parks makes your park more attractive.
It makes it more likely that people are going to want to come to these areas.
And so, again, private actors are incentivized to protect these things in a way that government actors are not.
At the end of the day, private actors have a profit margin that they are concerned with that the government simply does not.
The government does not run national parks seeking to make a profit, but these firms would.
And in order to make a profit, you need to fix the harms that currently exist, you need to do it at a lower cost.
And you have many firms that are willing to take on this burden, which means you have lower costs overall that the government is spending and better quality of parks for all.
For these reasons, we should privatize the national parks.