We should ban gratuities.
When we say we're going to ban gratuities, we would mean that we would make it illegal to tip work for all service workers you would you would not legally be allowed to tip those people.
What we're going to do to balance this out also is to ensure that the current rates at which service people are paid are increased, that we would make regulations be put in place for those that are harmed their income levels are made worse off by this ban in order to ensure that they can be paid a proper wage.
So let's talk about this.
First argument is that gratuities generally lower wages.
They depreciate wage value when gratuities are a normal part of society, businesses deflate wages with the promise that service workers can make up money through tipping.
Huge industries such as waiting, hairdressing, other service sectors have been created in such a way where large portions of these people wages come from tips.
This means that large portions of these people's income is also variable, that their actual salary is generally too low to cover the cost of their living expenses.
So it's very difficult for people to plan their lives in advance because they don't have a solid foundation of how much money is going to be coming in down the pipe.
You may get stuck some days with getting people that tip very low rates or don't know about the practice of tipping and therefore tip nothing or generally that you just get a lower lower productivity than normal and fewer people are coming in.
All this means is that people are unable to make plans for the long the long term and they're unable to have any sort of financial security.
Businesses can raise wages while passing on cost to consumers which is likely what would happen after banning gratuities because we think that service workers even without government action would refuse to work for the same wages that they were getting without gratuities and would force businesses to start paying more.
This cost already happens because most people tip which means that there's little actual harm to the consumer in increased cost it just means that instead of writing a number as the tip when you're paying for your bill you just have that number included in the cost of your meal or in the cost of your service.
Wages become more stable on our side of the house making long term planning possible and also allows people to lobby for raises more easily because those raises can be passed on to the consumer via tip.
Alright.
Secondly we think that as a principle quality based wages are bad.
We don't think that the services should have wages that these services and the people that do them should have their wages set by the quality of their service.
You pay for service as a customer and while dramatically low quality service that doesn't actually fulfill what was given by the person giving the service might be something that you would want a refund for.
If the service is given as promised the payment for that service should be rendered.
Tipping allows for curmudgeon's and just people with particularities to artificially determine service people don't deserve fair payment just because they didn't like their service or the type of service that they got eventhough what was promised to them their service was rendered.
There's also no set price for gratuities and thus some people just tip very little money meaning that rates aren't even always quality dependent sometimes they're just dependent on what someone believes to be a just rate when it really isn't.
This means that this means that consumers are misinformed about the impact of their tipping, it means that people that are in the service industries can be arbitrarily made worse off for a week or multiple weeks at a time, and this can have real impact especially because lots of these service workers that rely on gratuities are already low wage workers which means they simply don't have the money to make up for a loss of tipping even for a short period of time.
Given that this is the case, we think that quality based wages simply undermine the free market, they simply undermine what people are supposed to have rendered for their service when you're a service worker.
Given that this is the case, and given that we think that both markets and governments can ensure that raises occur for all the people that are losing that gratuity money, we think that we should ban gratuities.