We should abolish electronic voting.
In this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think it would be preferable to use paper ballots to electronic voting.
The first argument we want to make is that electronic is electronic voting is far more vulnerable to hacking.
We think that electronic voting simply by its nature, the fact that it can be infiltrated online and it unlike paper ballots which you can't invade a paper ballot through the internet when it's a physical object that isn't tethered to an internet connection.
It's simply much more difficult to go in and change votes when those votes are being done manually over paper and we think people are obviously in this day and age going to try and hack elections.
Look at how russia behaved in the last US election.
We think that with more time and more investment they'll be able to actually rig the election process even if they weren't able to do so the last time and look at how places like china, the united states and russia have immense tension between each of these bodies.
We think it's perfectly reasonable that any of these bodies would want to influence the election of another and there's comparative massive risk for very little gain.
Electronic voting doesn't, for the most part, make voting more efficient.
It may make it a little easier to count the votes but at the end of the day, most voting doesn't immediately lead to someone entering office.
There's like a grace period and given that this is the case we don't think that expedition is more important than security of the process.
Secondarily, we think electronic voting is likely to lead to more confusion.
People simply don't understand how to use the technology in front of them especially older people and while it's cliche to say that older people don't know how to use this technology, it's important to recognize that this is the case for many people and as the state, during the voting process, we think it's absolutely crucial to look out for each and every citizen to ensure they can accurately express their rights.
We think it simply more likely that people vote incorrectly with electronic voting than it is with paper ballots and we think the most important thing in an election is accuracy.
That the results of the election accurately reflect the views of the people but if people miscast their votes, then electronic voting simply fails on all counts.
It doesn't fulfill the purpose that the government needs it to be fulfilled.
Finally, electronic voting is very difficult to review.
Because of the security processes that go into electronic voting, these voting booths are are essentially black box systems for security and privacy.
So it's very difficult to see what inputs went in and how those inputs came out in the way they did.
This means that these voters that these votes are much harder to check which means that if there would be some sort of a malfunction that resulted in the voting process going wrong or if there were to be some sort of hacking, it's very difficult to understand what exactly went wrong because the black box system means that people can not fundamentally like understand how the process of the computation works and this isn't this simply is not possible with physical ballots right?
Like there's no way there's no parallel between casting a physical ballot and electronic voting in this respect and again when it comes to the election process, when it comes to voting, this is the very foundation of democratic systems.
The ability for people to express their preferences through a fair vote in which they will accurately be represented, through which they will accurately have representatives picked for them.
We think it's super important to ensure that voting goes well in all instances and that it simply isn't worth the risk to switch to electronic voting.
For these reasons, we should abolish electronic voting.