We should not introduce a pollution tax.
In this round, we're gonna make four main arguments about why we think a pollution tax would be unjust.
First, we think that, broadly and principally speaking, taxes are fundamentally unjust.
A tax is the state dictating that what you've earned through the free market through your own effort and your own labor is not due to you but rather is partially due to the state.
Whenever the state takes taxes away, whether it be from an individual or from a conglomeration of individuals in the form of a business or a corporation, it is saying that part of the labor that is being put in is owed to the state by fiat.
It's something that people have no ability to opt out of, and it's something that is unlikely to be removed through any sort of political measures because taxes are so fundamental to the state's existence.
Because of that, we think that introducing new tax is always going to be problematic and that doing so, in this instance, just because it has the goal of fighting pollution doesn't mean that it's going to be effective in doing so, nor does it mean that it's just.
Secondly, we think that if you're going to introduce a tax, it needs to be something that can be fairly applied and and has to be something that's going to be measurable.
And we think in the case of a pollution tax, this is very difficult to do.
Firstly, because businesses have an immense amount of incentive to hide their pollution, and secondly, because this type of pollution comes in a wide variety of forms and calculating the impact of polluting water versus emissions emissions pollution versus things like waste and nuclear waste, in some instances, we think that measuring the impact of these things and then dictating a fair taxation rate or a fair tax bill is going to be nearly impossible.
We think that because of this, because it can't be adequately and fairly applied, that introducing the tax becomes unjust, even if the end goals are are admirable.
Thirdly, we think that what's ultimately going to happen is one of two things: either businesses are going to discreetly dump and discreetly pollute at a much higher rate than they currently are, which means the tax is going to be ineffective and you're unlikely to get any sort of decreasing pollution or, in order to make up for this new tax, costs are going to go up.
And because all businesses pollute in some way, all businesses, all manufacturing, any sort of business that's producing a good is going to pollute, we think that this is going to lead to wide impacts on the market.
It's going to raise prices broadly amongst people and because of that, we think that this is simply an unjust measure.
But finally, even if you care about the environment, even if you think that fighting pollution needs to be one of our most important priorities as a state and as a government, we think that it's just ultimately better to regulate actual pollution than it is to enforce a tax.
We think that regulation is going to be more effective because: one, you can target things in a much more concrete way.
You can set limits on the amount of emissions that a corporation can put out.
You can set limits on the amount of pollution that can go into sewage and into local water supplies.
You can measure these things and you can say, " over the certain limit, you are violating the law, " and it's easier to enforce.
So if you care about pollution, you can say to a corporation with a regulation: this is illegal, you cannot function as a business doing this.
But even if the pollution tax works perfectly, pollution can still happen, because a tax is only a deterrent.
It's not a law.
It's not an enforcement that will absolutely stop that pollution.
So, if you care about pollution to a high degree, it is preferable to just regulate that pollution away, to target that pollution.
And, furthermore, we think that the tax in and of itself is going to be unjust, both in practice and in theory.
For these reasons, we should not introduce a pollution tax.