We should not further exploit solar energy.
In this round, we're going to make two main arguments about solar energy.
The first broad argument that we want to make is that as an investment, green technology is something that is not a particularly attractive investment and because of this, the amount of resources available to exploit solar energy are fungible in in in the sense that exploiting solar energy creates a tradeoff with other green technology.
So let's explain why that's the case.
In the status quo, as far as the yield of energy that you can get, per dollar expended, in your process of extracting that energy, solar energy and other green technology simply is not at the same level as traditional fossil fuels.
And so, as a resource that people will use, that municipalities will use, this is something that just isn't cost-effective right now in order to be implemented on a wide scale.
What that means is that as an investment opportunity, there are plenty of other beneficial investment opportunities that you can pursue that are likely to give you a larger yield on your investment.
And what this means is that for the average person that's investing, for the average person that's maybe putting money into their four oh one k, or an investment firm that's just trying to make yield on a product, solar technology and all types of green energy simply aren't a very attractive opportunity.
What this means is that when people are investing in this type of infrastructure, whether it's adopting it on their own or whether it's putting money into a business, giving loans, investing, buying stock in a corporation, they're doing this because they have a desire to increase green tech broadly.
We don't think that people that would invest in solar energy are opposed to the idea of wind energy being the dominant energy of the future.
They just want to see us moving off of fossil fuels for the obvious reasons that those fossil fuels are leading to our demise in the form of global warming.
So what this means is that we think there's a tradeoff between the technology that you can invest in, and we think it is preferable to put all of your investment into one basket.
The reason for this is that the way that technologies are able to develop is exponential in nature, which means that if you're able to get the base principles down of how to do a technology, the more investment you put into it, the larger yield you get per additional dollar that you invest.
We see this in stuff like microchips.
We see this in AI.
We see this in processing power.
We think the same is true for solar energy or for other types of green technology.
So why do we think that given that this is the case, we shouldn't exploit solar energy?
Well, simply put, we think that wind energy is better.
First and foremost, wind energy is not susceptible to long periods of darkness, whether this be storms, whether this be just simply nighttime, you can continue to produce energy at all times.
The second reason that wind energy is better is because it doesn't take up as much square footage to yield as much energy as solar energy does.
What I mean by this is that you can have a farm with tons of wind turbines in them because the actual impact on the ground of those wind turbines is so minimal.
It's just not a very large surface area.
So you can plan a farm, an entire farm, around these wind turbines which means that they're much easier to adopt en masse, which is what we need in order to convert communities onto these types of energy.
And finally, we think that it's just a higher amount of potential yield from wind energy overall.
Because there's easier adoption en masse and because it's easier because it is simply easier and more effective to adopt those things without having a tradeoff for other land uses, we think that wind wind energy is the more preferable green technology.
And for these reasons, we should not further exploit solar energy.