We should abandon television.
So in this round we think it's important to draw a comparison between television what we think would come to replace it.
We think in abandoning television what you're more likely to get is an alternative, more specialized form of media that is primarily probably coming through the internet.
We think should abandon traditional cable outlets traditional forms of television.
We think that alternative mediums are actually quite beneficial for their own reasons specifically, that we think that these types of mediums allow for more connected communication between followers of these types of media.
So we think that for example, a television following is less interconnected than an online following of similar type of content because individuals are more able to clearly comment and more easily communicate directly with one another.
We think there's closer communities generally that end up allowing people to be more actualized and more active in their consumption of media.
We also think that these other forms of content creation are much more open source.
What we mean by this is that the barrier to entry into television and to cable television is incredibly high in regards to the fact that there's an immense amount of money in financing needed and that there's a limited amount of real cable outlets for which people can show content but in the case of the internet and other types of specialized media, that we think is the comparison, we think that these are much more easy for other individuals to enter which means we think you get more niche types of content that allow people to be more pleased with the content they're generating.
We think that people are going to have a more preferable media experience generally if we were to switch to a different type of primary form of consumption.
We also think that there's just more possibility for interaction, for innovation.
We think that the current TV confines that exist are fairly constraint in regard to what people are willing to do in regards to the norms that exist around television.
We think those norms don't exist on places like the internet.
We think that's something that allows for again better creation.
So that's about why the alternative we think is preferable.
So why do we can television is uniquely so much more harmful?
So we think that television has historically been incredibly bad for the health of the people in countries where it has become prominent especially in developed countries.
We think there's a major issue with inactivity in the status quo.
We think that it's very clear through things like rising obesity rates, rates of diabetes, and that these trends follow the amount of increased hours of television consumption in specifically the american public and in the public more generally worldwide.
We think that television is a type of media consumption that is always going to be focused on the living room.
That's always can be focused inside the house and that because it's such a central part of the household is something that people learn to consume from a very young age.
That children become comfortable with being in front of a television and that it ends up in leading to adults that are more situated for that type of experience, that are more socialized to see that type of media outlet, and that type of primary entertainment.
We think it leads to more lazy and generally less healthy individuals.
We think that in comparison to alternative forms of media, firstly, there are often calls to action on these alternate forms of media, calls to meet up, because so much of the media is interactive.
There's an incentive to go out but you're also not stuck in front of a TV in your living room when you're when you're consuming other sorts of media, things like podcasts and online content or things that can be consumed on the go and that allow you to have more content that is more niche, more preferable for the for each particular individual and that doesn't constrain the individual to norms of sitting their living room on their couch, something that is overtly bad for their health and for their future and for these reasons, we believe we should abandon television.