We should increase airport racial profiling in the united states.
What we mean by this is we're going to take data from past attacks and we're gonna use that to single out certain groups for increased security checks.
We're going to recognize right at the start that yes, this practice appears to be a racist.
Yes, it ends up working off of stereotypes of individuals.
But we think that even if those things are problematic, that the the nature of the state requires it to protect its citizens at all costs.
To maximize its citizens' safety through reasonable steps such as this one, that we think is justified.
So firstly why does safety override rights in stereotyping?
Firstly because this is not actually cause harm onto the people that are being stereotyped.
It only increases the amount of checks that they need to go through the airport and increase the amount of security that they are subject to, but this doesn't mean that individuals are being physically harmed or assaulted in any meaningful way.
And this is outweighed by the increased amount of security that you couldn't get in another way.
Without using racial profiling, without using stereotyping, if you want to target individuals you need to it would require you to just take on immensely more TSA agents.
Immensely more airport security.
That simply is not going to happen for a system that's already dramatically underfunded.
And so the way that you can actually increase security is by taking these types of stances, because it's the only thing that you could realistically do with the budget that exists.
We think that bodily safety is also just a priority important in regards to to what is meaningful in an individual's life, before respect.
Anything else a person could want is less important than ensuring that they have bodily safety and bodily autonomy.
Because that is the prerequisite for acting upon all the other things that a person could want.
Protecting the bodies of citizens is the primary responsibility of the US state.
It's what allows the state to use its coercive apparatus to make people follow laws, to undertake the responsibilities of citizenship, it's with that promise that we will protect bodily autonomy.
And there's an overriding obligation that says you must increase airport racial profiling as the US state, if other options are not feasibly available, which they are not, in order to protect citizens.
The second thing we want to talk about is the specter of nine eleven and why we think that, especially in the united states, this practice should take place.
We think that airports are a big target for terrorist networks in the united states, because of the legacy of nine eleven.
Because nine eleven was the most successful terrorist operation on US soil.
It was the most dramatic and the most traumatic in our national memory, and therefore it is something that other terrorists want to emulate to get that same experience and that same message to citizens of the united states.
To strike that same amount of fear into people.
Because of nine eleven, additionally, people still don't feel safe in airports.
People still feel like they need to be worried about the person sitting next to them because they look different from them.
We think that you alleviate that type of fear, you alleviate the stigma that comes along with being a person of a certain race in an airport.
If you just increase the security checks and allow people to believe that no matter what, that people are going to be caught if they come into an airport, if they're a certain person, if they come into an airport and they are doing something nefarious.
If you take these types of steps, you alleviate the fears of people.
You help the nation recover from that specter of nine eleven and you make it harder for people to replicate those harms.
Yes, this may be a practice that appears to be racist on the surface, but the nature of the state requires it to take this action, and for these reasons we should increase airport racial profiling in the united states.