We should increase the use of personalized medicine.
When we're talking about personalized medicine we mean a few things: firstly we think we should increase the use of genetic testing when when doing things like medical treatment.
That genetic testing and medical treatment should be able to go hand in hand.
Secondarily we're in favor of people being split into different groups and treatment groups based on similar circumstances, similar genetic makeup, biological makeup, history of treatment, etcetera.
And finally we're we're in favor of more specialized treatment that is tailored to the individual rather than just generic treatment that is given to the same disease every single time.
So firstly we think that personalized medicine gives you better treatment.
And we're not talking about when we say better treatment that people are less sick, but rather that the process of treatment is better.
We think that context is always useful.
Personalized medicine allows you to tailor treatment based on past results of drug and other medical treatment.
So if you know that the that the group of people that you're treating, the patient group that a doctor is assigned to has together a bad history with a certain type of drug, it means that you can avoid giving them drugs like that in the future but rather find alternatives that fulfill similar purposes.
Which means that side effects from treatment are less harmful.
Testing based on genetic code additionally allows us to study the impact of medicine before it's even given.
Again, if we're able to do simulations for example of the way that your biological composition in your genetic code responds to the type of medical treatment that you're getting then we can prevent medical treatment from going awry prior to it actually being given.
Everyone responds differently to different treatment.
The human being is not the same across all bodies.
And we think that personalizing the treatment only makes logical sense.
We also think there's a compounding effect of more tailored medicine.
And we think it leads to a better understanding of the factors that impact efficacy of treatment.
If we're able to isolate people into certain groups then every sort of medical treatment can become a study in and of itself about what factors impact the efficacy of that treatment whereas just giving that treatment to a whole like a large sample size doesn't allow you to differentiate factors that could be causing failings in the treatment.
We think that ultimately personalized medicine leads to better treatment long term.
But secondarily we think it also be used to better results.
And the most important thing when we're talking about medicine is the results.
Is curing people of diseases and allowing them to live healthier and better lives.
We think that tailored treatment means doctors spend more time assessing patients and have more time to discover what the appropriate course of action is for any given ailment.
We also think there's just a higher likelihood of getting the results you need when the doctor is spending more time tailoring the treatment to your genetic code, to your specific medical history, to to factors that you have that may make treatment, potential treatment avenues, unlikely to succeed.
Compare this to the alternative of giving generic treatments.
Say chemotherapy is a generic treatment for certain types of of cancer, and then realizing that for whatever reason it doesn't work before tailoring the treatment to change which is ultimately going to align to what personalized medicine would like we do.
This means that you're letting the disease spread and worsen in the meantime, while this treatment is ongoing.
We think cutting off that that spread is preferable and we think that personalized medicine is likely to do that as well as increasing the likelihood of better of better medical treatment and understanding long term.
For these reasons we should increase the use of personalized medicine.