Socially responsible investing should not be encouraged.
So before we get into the actual arguments of the round, we want to set a burden for this debate for what exactly our side needs to prove in this debate.
We don't think it's necessary to show that socially responsible investing is bad.
We think there's tons of good things or net neutral things that exist in society that we don't publicly encourage, and so we think that our burden in this round is just that it shouldn't be encouraged through things like subsidies, or public policy, or other sorts of proactive campaigns in order to get people to change their behavior.
So the first argument that the government side makes is, incredibly unsurprising, it's that many corporations do incredibly unethical things that have real-world consequences and harm many people and that if you're going to invest and if you're going to fund some sort of corporation, you should be funding a corporation that is behaving ethically, because you are allowing those unethical actions to occur if you are allowing if you're funding it.
So we think it's undeniably true that corporations all over the world do very bad things that are reprehensible, but we have four responses to this to show that why this isn't sufficient.
First, we don't think it's the responsibility of investors to check corporations.
We think that this responsibility lies on the government, especially because much of these unethical practices are not things that investors themselves can directly control, nor are they things that nor are they things that can be solved without addressing them collectively, because these unethical things often reduce prices, and therefore consumers go and make those purchases.
It's a large structural issue that these unethical behaviors occur and because of that, we think the government is necessary in order to address it.
So we don't think that socially responsible investing is going to make these problems improve.
We also think it's just incredibly difficult to find a company that is wholly ethical if you look close enough at it and its practices.
Thirdly, many of the harms of things like sweatshops are honestly overblown when compared to alternative options for these workers.
Yes, we don't think that these conditions are good and, yes, we would prefer people to all be able to have nice jobs like we do in the west, but but the honest truth is that many people that are currently working in sweatshops would otherwise be working backbreaking labor somewhere else and doing some other dangerous job or be unemployed, if not for these businesses.
And given that that's the case, we think, in a comparative sense, these unethical corporations are not as bad as painted.
And finally, we think, with your yield on investment, if you do care morally about like the things that you are funding, you can always do things to offset that anyway.
We think that morality is not just black and white, it's something that exists on a spectrum, and so you can behave positively in other areas of your life.
The second argument that the government side makes is essentially that the government should encourage people to prop up ethical businesses as they are often more costly, so acknowledging the fact that these unethical practices also drive also drive lower prices.
So the first argument that we would say is that if businesses like a good investment, like if you are doing something that is ethical but also is going to make a profit, meaning which is what a good investment is, people'll invest in it anyway, because it's likely to generate a return on that investment, meaning that the government doesn't need to intervene in these instances because these are the instances that are already getting funding.
If you were to have some sort of political or public intervention to push people towards these types of investments, we think that you're just pushing people into a market that's going to become oversaturated and bloated.
But finally, we think the government should regulate businesses that do unethical actions for all of the reasons we explained already.
We think it's dramatically more likely that trying to create change is going to occur that way than rather than via ethical investing, and for these reasons, socially responsible investing should not be encouraged.