We should not introduce goal-line technology in this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why goal-line technology would be bad for the sport of soccer.
The first argument we want to make is that goal-line technology slows down the game.
In a game like soccer in which pace is incredibly important, in which people are used to to playing out playing out the game until stoppage time or until a goal is scored, it's important to recognize that fans have a certain experience of the game and it's based on this idea of constant action, of constant activity.
What goal-line technology does is that it takes you out of that action.
It removes spectators from their from their removal from the world and it forces them to sit and be in a state in which they're not actively enjoying the game, in which nothing is really happening and yes this goal-line technology can occur rather quickly, but you'd still need to stop the game entirely.
You still need to go to the sideline.
Referees still need to actually take a look at the video.
It's important to recognize that there can be large gaps in time that are caused by goal-line technology.
Given that this is the case, we don't think that is worth introducing this to the sport especially given the reasons that I am going to give now.
Secondly, we think that what goal-line technology does is it -mits it admits that refs are insufficient and it undermines the history of the sport.
If you introduce goal-line technology you're not just saying that moving forward we're going to have more accuracy and we're going to have a better idea of the actual outcomes of games, but it puts into question the entire history of the sport.
It puts into questions games that have been played long ago and history that has built up the fan base of the sport.
It says that those wins may not have been legitimate and that if we had had that technology a certain outcome could be different.
We think that it additionally, tells you and tells signals to the fans that referees are just insufficient.
That they are incapable of doing their jobs reasonably well enough that we simply cannot allow them that we simply cannot allow them to continue doing their job unaided.
We think that this is a bad signal to send and it undermines the faith that people have just in the game itself, in the history of the game, in the present of the game and we think that that is certainly bad for both fans and the business of soccer.
Finally and kind of less concretely, we think that there's a lot of fun that comes in complaining about the refs.
When your team when your team doesn't have a call go their way it's something that every fan in the fan base can rally around.
It's something that draws you closer to your team and closer to the players on your team.
It says that we stand with you.
We feel that you were cheated, that something was taken from you.
It's a rallying point and it's a point of conversation that fans are able to have.
It's something that people can talk about on morning talk shows, on sports shows.
It's something that keeps the dialogue and the interest in the game going well after the game has ended.
We think that having goal-line technology removes that aspect of the game and while some would say that this aspect is massively outweighed by the fact that you get more concrete answers and more accuracy in the sport, we would argue that firstly, most of the time you do have accuracy in the sport.
These refs are well trained and most of the time they get the job done.
But secondly, we think that it is more important that you have an enjoyable product on the field and an enjoyable environment for people to have in which to engage with that product than it is to have pure accuracy because at the end of the day sport is entertainment.
Sport is fun.
Sport brings communities together and accuracy is not the end-all be-all of what we need to achieve at the end of the day.
For these reasons, we should not introduce goal-line technology.