We should further exploit solar energy.
When we say that we should further exploit solar energy we think that government should transition as many resources that are currently going to coal, oil, and other fossil fuels immediately to investment in solar energy.
That we as a as a nation, we as a people, should put as much funding as possible into solar energy because we think it could potentially save the world.
First, let's talk about global warming, the most important issue in today's today in today's debate.
Global warming is the biggest threat to humanity's survival in the next one hundred years and it is coming.
There are rising sea levels that are projected to destroy economic hubs and cities because recognized that the most prosperous economic zones in the world are those that were built on the coast because the coast has historically, and in the present day, been the best place for economic hubs because they provide the easiest avenue for trades which means that as our sea levels continue to rise those cities, those that are producing the most economic gain, are the most at risk of being destroyed or irreversibly damaged by rising sea levels.
Secondarily, more solar or more global warming means more extreme weather events and we've seen over the past decade an increase in the mount in the amount of hurricanes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters that are caused by our climate things that you know aren't earthquakes and we know that this is going to continue to happen because as sea level sea temperatures continue to rise storms become more and more violent and this is going to cause not only thousands and thousands of increased deaths that otherwise could have been avoided but also billions of dollars in economic damage to cities that previously were not prepared.
Look at what happened to new jersey following hurricane sandy.
New jersey, a state in the northeast united states that is nowhere near prepared for a hurricane.
It hadn't had a hurricane in decades but because of global warming the shift of the hurricane up the coast was possible and it caused huge damage that is still being dealt with today.
There's also likely to be a lack of food and clean water because as global warming changes seasons, growing patterns in farming becomes less regular which means you have lower crop yields and of course the drying up of our lakes and fresh water resources.
Again, something that we can see already affecting the world today when we look at cape town which is literally about to run out of water.
We are rapidly approaching a tipping point of no return and our only chance for survival is shifting entirely away from fossil fuels to sustainable energy and solar energy is certainly sustainable.
Let's talk about the benefits of solar energy.
First, there's already a ton of infrastructure in investment in solar energy with people like elon musk creating massive solar plants that are built to improve both solar cells, to make sure that the energy is more efficient, and to just put the product out there so more and more people can adopt it.
It's also comparatively easy to produce in many areas compared to other options like geothermal and wind because the solar like the sun is just more readily available in more places to fuel more homes than say an open field where wind turbines can work.
There's also more potential for technological advancement in these fields which means it's likely that solar energy is going to become more efficient and economically the jobs in solar are better than that in fossil fuels because they require specialized labor rather than the manual labor that most fossil fuel companies require.
Finally, solar energy could lead to energy independence for the entire globe.
All of these things are independent of the benefits of protecting humanity from global warming and these would be enough to further exploit solar energy but on top of that, it is necessary in order for us to prevent a literal humanitarian disaster worldwide.
For these reasons, we should further exploit solar energy.