We should not introduce carbon taxes.
In this round we're going to take two distinct approaches to explain why carbon taxes are a bad middle ground that no one wants.
First we're going to argue that from a perspective of trying to prevent global warming that carbon taxes are comparatively ineffective to other measures that we could take that are ultimately mutually exclusive.
The other we're going to do is explain that under a free market system that the state is existing in that the state exists to create that carbon taxes are fundamentally unjust.
So let's start with why they're comparatively ineffective.
So if you're someone that cares about global warming, you recognize that we don't just need to have a curtailing of carbon emissions, but we need to be massively cap them.
We need to set a limit at which carbon can be emitted and we need to bring it down dramatically from current levels.
Carbon taxes don't set any sort of cap on carbon emissions.
They merely make it more expensive for people to polute but recognize that the largest polluters are very rich organizations who exist and create tax systems in both developing and developed countries that allow them to pay relatively low tax rates.
We think that it is fundamentally cheaper to pay the tax for organizations that already do not want to change than it is to actually change their supply line, to go through the whole process of making sure that their emissions are lower at all steps of the supply chain and to make sure that they're practicing good tenants of using clean technology.
We think that a preferable system would be one of cap and trade because a cap and trade system actually it creates a similar tax incentive that you know gets people to stop using and stop emitting carbon but it also sets a cap on just how much carbon can be omitted from any given industry.
And this ensures that your goals are reached and insurers that people aren't polluting above a certain level and it forces people to change their supply lines and if you care about global warming you recognize that the tipping point is fast is fast approaching at which we will be on the point of will be beyond the point of no return we think that we are doomed without these caps and that introducing carbon taxes is a half measure that simply does not get the job done.
But from a different perspective, we would say that the free market is ultimately likely to solve this problem for a few reasons.
Firstly, we think that is the obligation of the state to create free and open markets.
The state fundamentally exists to maximize the freedom of individuals.
Individuals who would have no freedom in the state of nature and given that this is the case we think it naturally follows that a free and open and fair market exist within the state.
But this tax is a massive impediment to that end given that the free market is likely to solve in the status quo.
There is an impetus in the status quo for green technology to continue to innovate to drive their prices down at a substantial rate and that's what we're seeing empirically in the green technology field.
We already see that many companies are shifting away from using carbon and those who want to are already able to move off of carbon emitting energy sources.
There's also immense amounts of public advocacy in in both the developed and the developing world to use products that are carbon neutral, to use products and to get products from companies that are not furthering the impact of global warming as it already stands.
Given this combination of factors, the lowering prices a green technology, the high advocacy for people and products to be made using green technology, we don't think that this is a necessary tax to put in place and given that the tax is unjust in a fundamental way it impedes the free market that the government exists to create and it's not creating a unique end that is ultimately going to solve a substantial problem as it exists.
We simply don't think it is worth implementing the tax to begin with.
For these reasons, we should not introduce carbon taxes.