We should not abolish eminent domain.
In this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think eminent domain is a necessary part of a of a state of a modern state.
So first eminent domain is often necessary for different public works.
We think that it is crucial that the state have firm infrastructure.
It's crucial that the state have the ability to create infrastructure projects that improve the and benefit the whole of the state.
That is one of the main reasons that the state exists, in order to provide the infrastructure that allows people to live secure lives, that allows businesses to lead productive lives, that allows money to flow, that allows communities to to grow, that allows there to be transportation of goods and services and people in a free flowing manner.
We think that having proper infrastructure is necessary to having a modern state in many ways.
And because of that we think that eminent domain is often necessary in order to carry out these projects.
Whether it's creating a new highway in a particular area, whether it's removing blighted areas and replacing it with with new businesses, with new opportunities for business to grow, whether it's creating public spaces, things like this that allow community to come together.
All these create a public benefit and the thing with eminent domain is that you're giving just compensation to the people that had previously lived there.
If you're moving someone for the public good, you give them just compensation so that they can start their life in a different area.
And while it may seem callous to say this moving from one home to the other, while it's certainly something that can have an emotional toll on someone if it's like a family home that's been in the family for generations, it's something that most people have to go through at one point in their life, to move from where they're currently living.
And we think that people you know generally they move on from those types of things and those types of harms that accrue to them.
But if you're giving them just compensation you're doing this in a transactional way and you're not just stealing that property from them, we think that the state is entirely justified if necessary to use eminent domain to take that home.
And eminent domain is only activated after a long and rigorous planning process has been undergone.
So we think it's maybe justified to say don't allow eminent domain in instances where another where another option is available but that is the standard in the status quo.
You need to have a narrowly tailored purpose, it needs to be it needs to be the most expedient way and the most efficient way of doing this thing, and it can't be there can't be a viable alternative to the way that the the project is being undertaken.
And under those constraints we think that it is justified that the state act.
If the if the if the public highway that they're building has to run through a community well if it can't run through a different community but not having that highway means that two major sectors of business are entirely cut off, that a commute for an entire you know for potentially millions of people is made hours longer for for businesses to not be able to thrive, all these things are do all we think all those things that way an individual or group of individuals right to live in a particular area.
And that brings us to our final argument which is just that property rights are not absolute.
We think that all rights and particularly property rights only exist because they benefit the individual and they benefit the collective.
The idea of having property rights benefits the collective because it allows people to accumulate wealth, it drives people to innovate, it allows people to have confidence and security in their possessions and their well being, but we think that in instances in which those property rights are being compensated for so you're not losing any value that there is no fundamental right to property that's being violated and that the greater good should and must override and that is only possible with eminent domain.
For these reasons we should not abolish eminent domain.