We should not end mandatory retirement.
In this round we're gonna make three main arguments about why mandatory retirement is important for both businesses and for society.
The first and it's important before I make any arguments, important to actually recognize what the job market looks like because we're currently in a situation in which many people are serving in their roles and they serve in their roles for extended periods of time.
You've employees that have been working for twenty, thirty years at the same company.
You've entrenched ideas in these companies and there's a lot of good reason why people want to keep the same employees.
There's less training costs when you keep the same employees.
You don't have to worry about people fitting into a company culture.
You don't have to worry about having people understand your business's bottom line and how you go about achieving it and especially when businesses are thriving, there's fear that any sort of mix-up is going to change how that business succeeds.
It's going to change the business's ability to thrive.
But we think that there are a lot of benefits that come with mandatory retirement that need to be explained.
The first is that it causes an infusion of new ideas.
When companies are forced to let people retire, when companies are forced to to have people leave their company and they're forced to get new employees, what they seek out is oftentimes younger employees.
The reason for this is that yes, younger employees may have less experience but they also come from a place in which your training of them is going to have a longer impact because they're going to stay with your company longer and the benefit of young employees is that they bring a new they bring new ideas to the table.
They bring a new way of thinking about current problems and current challenges that your business is facing.
Recognize that we live in a dramatically and ever changing world and that many people that are at the top of these businesses have difficulty relating to their consumer base.
They have difficulty understanding how people interact with the world today and how people want to do things like consume content or make purchases or what they find to be trendy or stylish or worth spending their money on and new ideas and new ways of viewing how your business relates with the world is important for allowing your business to thrive.
It also brings an infusion of energy.
Many people that are working way into their older ages, are people that simply aren't able to work at the same level they have been previously and yes, that isn't true in all cases but it is true that many people who are older are less able to are less able to do things like work long workdays.
They're less able to do things like work weekends, work overtime.
They're less likely to take that extra step and while they may be satisfactory employees, they're not excellent employees.
They're not employees that are pushing your bottom line further and that are achieving more for your business but younger employees have more energy to do these types of things.
They have less commitments to things like family and they're more likely to work that much harder to try and get ahead within the business.
Finally, the current market precludes young people who need the money most.
Young people are leaving college today with an immense amount of debt.
They're leaving college to to a job market that is already saturated.
They're leaving they're entering a job market that is not hospitable to them.
Getting rid of mandatory retirement and making it that much harder for people to find jobs, only means that the debt the debt crisis that currently exist gets worse.
It only means that these people's lives are made worse and we think there's a promise that our society makes to these people.
They say that if you go to school and if you work hard you can get a quality job.
We think that we shouldn't remove any barriers.
We shouldn't put more barriers in place to being able to achieve that goal and to make good on that promise as a society and ending mandatory retirement would do that.
For these reasons, we should not end mandatory retirement.