We should not end progressive taxation.
So before we get into the round and respond to some of the government's arguments, we wanna actually just point something out that's very clear, which is that our side is defending the status quo.
Our side is saying that the system of taxation that we have now, the current sets of motivating factors that exist in the status quo are what we are defending and so, when the government makes claims that we're going to get to later about the pragmatic harms of progressive taxation, we think it's important to keep in mind that, in the status quo, we don't have a system in which there is immense warfare between classes, there's not a system in which people aren't driven to go on and get better jobs, in which people don't try and still improve the economy, and we're not living in a society in which the economy is flatline.
Given that these things are the case, we think, from a pragmatic standpoint, progressive taxation does not really, as a status quo, is not a system that has caused an immense amount of the harms that the government side projects and therefore, we think, they cannot win this debate on the pragmatic terms.
But let's get into some of the positive pragmatic arguments for our side as well as the principled.
So we have a number of reasons why we think that progressive taxation is the most fair way of having a distributive tax burden.
Because recognize that the government side also doesn't argue for the equality of everyone paying the same share of taxes.
They're not saying that all people should pay the exact same fee, even though if you look in a in absolute terms, if everyone is getting, from their perspective, if everyone is getting the same sort of benefit, if everyone is getting the same sort of benefit from the state, which is what the government side would argue in this round and has argued, we think then it wouldn't be fair for millionaires to pay millions of dollars more than people that have a thousand dollars in the bank, because they're each getting the same benefit.
And, therefore, we think, based on all of the government's arguments, what they're actually saying is that there should be some sort of equality of burden.
But if you're going to argue for equality of burden, it's important to recognize that one dollar to someone that is incredibly well-off does not mean the same to someone who is not well-off, and we think that progressive taxation best captures this model of reality in which people recognize that you can put a higher burden on someone who is in the ninetieth percentile of income.
You can put a much higher burden, a percentage that you take away from them, than you can for someone in lower economic classes, and their life is not going to be harmed in a demonstrably in a demonstrable way.
We think most of the time, these people are going to be able to live essentially the same quality of life and, therefore, if you want a quality of burden, which we think is clearly what the other side is after when they're arguing principally that you should take from all people equally, and that this means that you should take the same percentage rather than the same absolute amount, we think that we just better hit the same target that the government side sets out.
We also think it's fair to point out that the rich get a lot more from the state.
The state sets up economic apparatuses that then the rich are able to benefit off of.
But lets then, quickly, respond to the principled argument that the government makes, which is that people have the right to property that they derived through their labor and therefore, if all taxes are theft, you need to steal equally from all people.
First, we explain why their principal their principled argument would instead lead them to a system that they are not endorsing, one of absolute absolute tax payments from all people, but it's important to point out two things.
First, the state makes all of these things possible.
The entire economic system in which your labor can exist is only possible within the state apparatus and, therefore, you owe the state for any sort of property that you're able to accumulate.
And secondly, in reality, effort and labor have little correlation with wealth and income.
There are people that work incredibly hard day in, day out, in incredibly menial belabor-intensive jobs that will never even come close to making the same amount as someone like jeff bezos will in a single second.
For these reasons, we should not end progressive taxation.