We should not fight urbanization.
We would say, that, as far as human development is concerned, urban areas and cities have been crucial to the ability for people to come together, to share and disseminate ideas, to build and grow economies, and to allow for the advancement of policy, of progress, in a people within nations.
And for these reasons, we think that urbanization has been an overwhelming factor of good in our world, and it should not be fought against.
So, why do we think that urbanization is so good?
First, we're going to talk about jobs and the economy, and secondly we're going to talk about the social good of urbanization.
So, recognize that urban areas are great for economic growth.
The reason for this is that there are massive and very diverse pools of labors, for very profitable businesses to draw some.
So, what this means is that, in essence, it's much easier for apple to move into san francisco, or move into a very densely populated urban and educated area, an area where people don't have to commute from a wide array of places, where businesses know if they go to, there's going to be a talent pool to draw from, because simply of the massive amount of people in the area.
We think that it makes it easier for companies, like apple, google, even non tech firms, to move into areas and get labor, because of urbanization, because they know where they can go to.
What this means is that there's a localized area, where there's high access to jobs and employment opportunity, which means that it allows people to go to these areas, and essentially find opportunity, and find jobs.
It also is less expensive to work in these areas, because you have things like public transportation, which means that you can move around urban areas, with relative ease, with relative low cost, and are able to transport to your job, to whatever you may be doing, and to find a wide variety of employment opportunities in these areas.
It's very easy for individuals to come to these areas as hubs of innovation.
It also attracts businesses of similar types, which means that you're more likely to get competition in these areas, which drives up wages in these areas, you're more likely to make it so, that even of the lowest of of the lower skilled employees, because you have a critical mass of of individuals, you can do things like form labor coalitions, and ultimately argue for higher wages.
Ultimately, what we've seen, time and time again in urban areas, is that you have a huge amount of potential employment, that allows businesses that bring in tax revenue, and bring in job opportunities, to come into these areas, and bolster the economy.
It also means that there's a huge customer base, which means niche and otherwise start startup companies are likely to come to these areas, because it means that you're likely to find some sort of a customer base, and these types of products are the ones that have historically blown up into the things that are so important to us today, places like apple, places like microsoft, that were started in silicon valley, in the back of people's in people's garages, and they had a huge base of customers to draw from.
All right, very quickly, the second reason we think urbanization is good is because, it's socially good.
Recognize that urban areas are are contemporary and historically avenues for progressive action, and historically progressive political progress, that allows for the enfranchisement of more individuals, and the opportunity for uplift of more individuals.
It also allows for cultural melting pots that allow for a couple of things: the first is that it closes the empathy gap, between individuals of different cultures, and allows for people to be more welcomed in these urban areas, as opposed to more rural areas, where there's less contact, and secondly it allows for the dissemination of different cultural ideas, which breaks out of the political stagnation, that we often see, and allows for different areas of the world to contribute to the the political discourse, that occurs in these urban areas.
All these benefits of urbanization impact people from a variety of class structures, and for those reasons we'd say that we should not fight urbanization.