We should not prohibit unisex bathrooms.
So, to be clear, we don't think this debate is about whether or not we should abolish all single-sex bathrooms, but rather we think it is explicitly about whether or not we should allow unisex bathrooms to exist as a third option.
We think that there is no way, shape or form in which unisex bathrooms are mutually exclusive to having single-sex bathrooms.
And we think, just like we have two options, nowadays, where there's a men's room and a women's room, there can be a third option to have to have a unisex bathroom, which we think is totally acceptable, totally fine, and doesn't go against the the spirit of this debate.
But let's talk about why we think unisex bathrooms are actually important.
So we think that there are a number of people, especially people in the trans community, who feel like they are putting themselves at risk of being either attacked for using a gendered bathroom for the gender they identify with or being outed as transgender for using, say, the bathroom of the gender that they have transitioned out of, but because of public regulations, they aren't allowed to go in the bathroom that they identify with.
We think that instead of having the larger traumatic experience of forcing these people to debate, time and again, which bathroom they should be in, we think it is a much easier solution to just have a unisex bathroom that these people can use.
And, frankly, we don't think that this is going to create any sort of outing, because we think there's lots of people that are just going to use whatever bathroom is nearest to them, and there are lots of other people that would use these unisex bathrooms.
Because despite what the government side says, in most places, the bathroom, maybe it can serve as a safe space, but it doesn't really act as a safe space, as most people are just going to the bathroom.
So, that being said, let's directly respond to the arguments of the government side.
So I alluded to it already, the first argument they make is that bathrooms in the status quo are safe spaces, that women are oppressed within their society, that they face a myriad of struggles, and that it's important for them to have a safe space like a women's restroom, where they know that they won't be subjected to sort of patriarchal forces and to the trauma of men.
And then, the the government side also mentions like trauma can be triggered because of, you know, being in a bathroom in which you feel vulnerable and then having a person of the opposite sex in there with you.
So, again, we don't think that this is actually an argument against unisex bathrooms but is rather just an argument for why you should also have single-sex bathrooms, which we are in support of.
We don't think that any of this explains why if three options exist, this should be a problem or this would be a major issue, but we also just don't think that bathrooms are, in any way, like a real safe space.
Like if someone actually feels threatened, we do think it's totally possible that someone could just barge into the bathroom when they shouldn't have.
And, frankly, that happens all the time in aggressive situations.
But also, if you're talking about safe spaces, weigh that against the power and the benefit that goes to the trans community for making them feel welcome, for making them feel like their concerns have been listened to and are being addressed.
The final argument the government side makes is about efficiency which is, essentially, just urinals are more eco-friendly and efficient and won't exist if all bathrooms are unisex bathrooms.
So, first, I don't think that's true.
I think if all bathrooms were unisex bathrooms, there would still probably be a decent amount of space dedicated to urinals, because they are so efficient.
And secondly, again, unisex bathrooms are not exclusive not exclusionary of single-sex bathrooms.
At the end of this day, we think that the government side tries to attack unisex bathrooms by assuming that this world is one in which there can't be single gender bathrooms but, frankly, this debate is about whether or not unisex bathroom should be allowed at all.
And we think, clearly, in a world in which more than just the unisex options exist, this should be the case.
For these reasons, we should not prohibit unisex bathrooms.