We should not privatize the military.
We think that the idea to privatize the military is a radical one.
It's something that almost no country in the world has ever done, and we think for good reason.
To put the arms of war and to put military power in private hands, even if it's going to be ultimately overseen by public figures, we think, is an incredible risk to national security and ultimately, is not a it doesn't provide any sort of benefits over the status quo.
So the first argument that the government makes to try and combat this idea is that if you privatize the military, you're likely to save money, because private firms are competing with each other in order to try and get government businesses and that these firms are likely to do things that are likely to cut costs relative to current military expenditures.
But, first, we think you're still likely going to spend a ton of money, because people care about national defense, and because it's something that people are unwilling to cut in most instances.
Second, if you care about the amount of government's spending on the military in the status quo, you can shrink that military spending now with the same political will that it would take to privatize the military in this hypothetical world, without having to put the arms of the the tools of war into private hands.
And, finally, even if we're spending more money in the status quo, we think it is massively massively preferable to have slightly increased costs without the risk of funneling tons of weapons and military power into private hands, private hands that could ultimately wield that power for their own benefit.
And this is something that the government again tries to play off of.
The government side says this removes the tools of oppression from government hands.
But, yeah, that might be the case, but it only puts those tools into the hands of private citizens, and they can do just as much harm with those weapons.
They can do just as much harm with that military power as the as public as the public can.
But we think that what you get with the public military that you don't go the private military is: one, a strong commitment from the government to serve veterans and to protect them in the long run ; two, a sense of national pride in serving in the military, which means you don't get as many high-level recruits going to serve in the military ; and three, a copious amount of training, oversight, and care, because the government has a massive incentive to ensure that the military is run properly, whereas if these private firms are just trying to compete with each other to cut costs, you might have people that are dealing with war, that are that are acting in wartime who are undertrained and underprepared and, ultimately, a risk to national security.
And finally, the government tries to assuage some of my fears of things like a private military coup, or uprising, or anything like that by saying, " look, you're still going to get orders from the top. "
For example, in the united states, if you'd had a private military, the president's still going to be in charge of that military overall.
There's still going to be, probably, publicly-hired generals and officials that are making calls about what to actually do strategically, but at that point, why do you have why why essentially have mercenaries if all of the high-level decisions are going to be made publicly anyway?
We think at that point, you're just adding a middle man that says the government's just going to pay a private firm as opposed to covering the costs itself for its own military and having it run itself in a way that it deems fit.
We think that in the status quo, you have a system where countries are able to have high-level military operations, they're able to have strong apparatus for national defense, and we just don't think that any sort of risk that comes with privatizing the military provides nearly enough benefit to outweigh the costs that we've that we've laid out for you today.
For these reasons, we should not privatize the military.