We should not further exploit natural gas.
The government side tries to paint this as a discussion over a trade-off between coal and oil and natural gas but we think that this argument in this debate is really a debate about whether or not in a world with climate change any more funds should be invested in a carbon emitting source of energy like natural gas which we think is entirely unnecessary.
Regardless of the comparative benefits of natural gas with coal and oil, those benefits will never exceed the comparative benefits of other clean sources like wind, solar and nuclear energy.
Which is why we think that any resources that the government side would have us invest in natural gas should be invested in these other alternatives.
The first argument that they make is that this is a stepping stone to a cleaner world but we think there's a few problems with this.
The first is that we think that this is a largely unnecessary stepping stone because if the eventual goal is to transition to a world that is post fossil fuels, a world like a solar powered or a nuclear powered world, then the infrastructure that is required for those types of things are meaningfully different in a way that it's not a stepping stone but rather it's just a sideways transition before we ultimately get to clean fuel.
But the problem with putting investment in something like natural gas say you transition say you spend a lot of resources to transition your coal-fired power plants to natural gas natural gas power plants, well that investment entrenches natural gas in a meaningful way.
Instead we would rather have an investment to directly transition from coal-fired power plants to nuclear power plants or solar power plants because this means that there's no entrenchment of infrastructure that's unnecessary and we ultimately get better clean energy resources.
The next thing they say is that natural gas produces less smog as like an example of how it's a comparative benefit.
Again, we think that electric is always going to be better than natural that clean electricity is always going to be better than natural gas and so the comparative in this debate is really or the question in this debate is whether or not any more resources should go towards exploiting natural gas than the status quo.
The second argument that they make is that natural gas promotes trade and stability which ultimately leads to more long term peace and this is the kind of only argument that I think they give about why it's a good stepping stone towards clean energy rather than just a direct transition in saying that stability requires for example russia, one of the major powers in the world, and they are mainly a petrostate so having a world that has natural gas ties them closer to the west and therefore creates less hostility and the same goes for natural gas in the middle east and north africa in that you give time for these countries to build up resources which they can then use to diversify so that eventually when we make this transition these countries will be in a better position than if we were to make a transition right now to totally clean energy.
But we think there's a few problems with this.
The first is that this is a short-termist view at best cause either we're going to make a transition to clean tech soon or we're going to face major damages from global warming, the damage of which will outweigh any sort of risk of instability in these regions and promote global the downfall of global order rather than just regional order.
So we think that we should we should we would rather take the risk that the government side is right and that maybe we create a little more a little less trade and a little more instability but we think that ultimately this is preferable to their world.
The other issue is that we actually don't think trade goes up as much as they say because many of the countries that are currently relying on oil and coal are much richer in natural gas than they are in those resources and so the comparative trade gains are less than the government paints.
For these reasons, we should not further exploit natural gas.