We should fight nationalism.
In this round we're going to talk about nationalism as a system of beliefs that gives preference and priority to people that are of the similar national origin as you, people that have a similar national background or a nationality to you.
This can exist between between states in national private of one state prioritized over another or even within states having pride of your nationality as a principle over nationalities of other groups that exist within your state.
So we have a few reasons why we think that we should fight nationalism.
The first is that nationalism is a necessarily exclusionary understanding of how society works.
That in order for a nationality to be distinct, you must create a differentiation between your nationality and the other.
And we think in doing so you end up drawing lines that are one, massively stereotypical, two, mythologized and based upon conceptions of a historical understanding of your nationality that simply doesn't exist.
This, for example, exists amongst german nationalities and understanding of a national identity that exists within germany but rather this is a misunderstanding of history compartmentalizing of history in such a way where there's unity created between dozens and dozens of warring factions and warring societies that have some cultural sharing, but not real cultural unity, national identity a national identity that mostly takes place in the last two hundred years but gains roots going back thousands of years that are used to divide one group from another.
We think that this is important both in society but firstly within the state.
Recognize that the state has an obligation to represent all citizens within its control.
The state as a coercive of body has control over how people live their lives, the rights that are granted in those individuals and has a massive course of apparatus that constrains those individuals without their consent.
Given that this is the case the state needs to be sure needs to ensure that all all people's beliefs, all people's livelihoods, are represented and upheld within the state and adopting nationalism at a state level excludes those people both as a signaling mechanism, saying that our state is of this nationality and that if you are not of this nationality you are not welcome here, but also explicitly in in enacting discriminatory legislation that ultimately prefers one national group over another causing in fighting, violence that exists within the state, and different types of discrimination that have serious harms on people's livelihoods.
We think that this is problematic but furthermore we think that globalization is the way of the future.
And we think on a social level it is better to avoid nationalism and to fight nationalism because it goes against both the progress that we know is coming, how global markets are arising at rates incredibly quickly in that these are becoming the ways in which global powers are able to interact, spread their power, and how ideas are able to be shared.
Technology, commerce, all these things exist in a global market space and that when you adopt nationalist policies you ultimately become contentious against those types of global global factors, those types of global pressures that exist.
And we think fighting against the current of globalization is only going to hinder a country's development.
It's only going to exclude it from the massive amount of economic growth potential that exists within a global world.
So we think that adopting nationalism at a social sphere excludes groups both within your state but also makes you less likely to work with other states that don't share the same nationality as you.
That's problematic.
We also think that it leads to massive abuses of immigrants groups.
Immigrant groups within a state are often the most disenfranchised, the most vulnerable because they're coming from a situation which they have very little to bring with them, they have very little working for them.
Even in situations in which they are privileged and they bring certain privileges, certain economic benefits, economic economic standing with them from their former state, these are often people that don't have community ties and when nationalism is adopted these people are often the most marginalized within society and the ones that are often suffering the most discrimination.
We think that nationalism only serves to divide a country, it only serves to discriminate between groups, and it only hinders a country's development and for these reasons we should fight nationalism.