We should increase internet censorship.
So we're not gonna talk specifically about the model for how we're going to do this, we think that as a general principle, government should try and increase the amount of internet censorship.
So when we're talking about censorship we're not saying filtering based on what's good for the government, we're saying that there is certain information that is fake or hateful that we think is being perpetuated on the internet to a massive degree and that that type of content should be censored.
Not that not the the content not the what is composed of the content.
So not the ideas that are being spread themselves but either the hate or the accuracy, the validity, these would be the basis for how we would censor.
So that being said, two big arguments: the first is about fake information.
In the status quo the internet presents virtually unlimited opportunity for speech.
This has allowed anyone to say anything they want even without sources to back up their claims or anything more than their own words and this has been able to be blasted out there with a reach of thousands or millions of people.
We can see empirically that this massive influx of news and information has made people wary of all new sources.
The fact that there are so much more information out there, the fact that there are so many people perpetrating themselves as as valid news sources has confused the general public and in the end people end up picking sources that confirm their existing believes, even if those sources are largely incorrect and this has huge implications.
First, we think you clearly get a worst informed public that leads to a bad voter base.
What we mean by a bad voter base is that because people are working off of false assumptions, they ultimately vote against their interests which we think is an objectively bad decision for those people and something that should be avoided.
Additionally, this allows politicians to hide behind partisan news sources to hide their shady behavior.
For example, when you have a president like donald trump who's able to use right wing sources such as breitbart news to back up the false facts that he is putting out there, it puts more validity for his political acts when there is at in a in a realistic sense, in reality no backing for what he is stating.
This also creates a more divided society because people from different political perspectives are suddenly operating under entirely different fact sets.
We move from a time in which different political opinions were about a difference in how you believe we needed to proceed as a society and they've now become a difference of how you view the actual reality that we are living in and how you view the dangers that are presented to us based on an entirely different set of information which we think is incredibly harmful for public discourse and it's incredibly harmful in a variety of specific issues such as global warming and vaccinations that have real massive impacts.
Secondly we think that there are bad communities springing up on the internet.
We think that online spaces are becoming hotbeds for hate groups for three reasons: first, it's easier to collect other members from a small minority and recognize members of hate groups are a very small minority of the population and it's easier to gather those people when you're not confined by geography.
Secondly, anonymity allows people to spew hate with very little with with very little fear that they're going to be caught, with very little fear that that hate's going to be attached to their name and finally it's very easy to find these groups.
You can just use a simple search engine to find these things.
This has created a renaissance period for hate groups and a rise of nationalism more generally.
These communities pose real threats to minorities and other marginalized people.
Their bodily autonomy and their peace of mind should be preserved and we think the government has an obligation to fight these hate groups that real not only threaten them vocally threaten these minority groups vocally but also when they get into this group think space, when they get into these online communities and they start blowing up each other's own thoughts we think that it creates a sphere in which people become much more likely to act on those violent thoughts, on those hateful thoughts, which we think poses real life and very serious implications for these groups.
For these reasons we should increase internet censorship.