We should not ban naturopathy.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why naturopathy should be allowed to exist.
The first and, we think, the most important is that this would be a principally unjust ban.
So let's walk through why we think that's the case.
To start, we need to look at the actual nature of the state itself and what is and is not a just action for the state to take.
Because the state is essentially a massive coercive apparatus in the sense that it can, on an individual to state level, fundamentally force a single person to do almost anything it dictates, that it is an essentially unchecked body as far as the individual to state relationship and because of that, it has an immense amount of power that it can yield.
But the other on the other end of that, there's very little ability for me to consent to the state because I didn't consent to all the laws that were passed, to the bodies that exist as part of a state.
There's really no opportunity for me to revoke that consent to the state if I were to choose to do so and because of this, we think the state needs to find a proxy for consent in order to be just, a guiding a guiding mechanism for making legislation.
And what we think that guiding mechanism ought be and must be is to maximize freedom.
The reason for this is that in a in a in a world without states, a world of absolute freedom, people have the ability to do anything they want.
You can do anything that your heart dictates, but that also means that every other person has that same ability.
So your freedom and others' freedom clash in many ways and others' freedom, in fact, poses a threat to your own freedom.
And so the reason a rational person would consent into the state is not to get welfare benefits.
It's not to get free housing or to have a free market, but more it's more so that you can maximize your freedom, so that you can have as many freedoms possible protected.
And so we think that the modi the modus operandi for the state ought to be to maximize freedom in every action it takes.
Banning naturopathy clearly goes against that maximization.
And now there're certainly just ways that you can ban something.
For example, it can cause a direct third-party harm, but naturopathy does not do that.
If I don't treat medical if I don't seek medical treatment and treat myself through naturopathy and then end up being more ill, there's no third-party harm that was gained from that, at least not a direct third-party harm, and because of that, I, as a free individual, should be able to make that choice for myself.
There could also be some sort of asymmetry of information but the way that you correct for that is through informing people, is through ensuring that there are certain regulations in place to make sure that people are making fully informed decisions when they choose this type of treatment.
It's not by banning it outright.
But furthermore, naturopathy can work.
The placebo effect has been shown time and time again, through clinical study, to have a real impact on people as they're trying to treat themselves and heal themselves from various diseases.
And naturopathy has not been shown to harm people outright.
So at the very least, it does have the benefit of the placebo effect.
If people go into the treatment thinking they're going to get better, certainly it's not going to work in all cases but it can have an on net positive influence.
But finally, just because naturopathy is not scientifically proven to work does not mean that it has absolutely no impact.
It doesn't mean that with more study, this type of treatment couldn't be found to be effective.
It doesn't mean that on a larger sample and in very specific circumstances it can be a path forward for a cure for individuals.
Just because something hasn't been proven to work doesn't mean it's been proven not to work.
And because of this and because of the fact that free individual adults within the state should be able to act in ways that they see fit if it doesn't harm other people, we should not ban naturopathy.