We should not abandon social media.
The government side tries to paint social media as something that is divisive, alienating, and ultimately harmful to individuals.
But we think despite some of the real harms of social media that, overall, it brings people together, shows them experiences that widens their world view, and allows for a more connected and, therefore, a more unified world.
So, let's start with their first argument about alienation.
They say that you only see curated forms of people's lives and that, ultimately, because you're looking on social media and seeing all the great things that are happening to others, and you have to deal with your day-to-day existence, that people become depressed.
So, a few responses to this.
The first is that, in reality, if you have face-to-face communications with people, there's two types of people.
The first is the people that you're close to, and you know their reality.
Like, even if I am a friend with someone on facebook who has a great social media presence, if I talk to them on a regular basis, I still hear about their hardships and I've an understanding about their more well-rounded life.
But additionally, for the people that I'm not particularly close with, if I have a couple of interactions with them every now and again, even those face-to-face interactions are going to be curated.
The curated appearance that people give to others is not unique to social media, it's indicative of the degree of separation you have from those people, and therefore we don't think that this type of seclusion or this type of curation is unique to social media.
As far as people becoming depressed, we think that what social media also does is it allows you to share hardships.
You see people sharing news about the death of a loved one, about their bouts with depression or some sort of other illness.
They talk about their hardships in getting a job.
If you look at people's social media feeds, it's not just the good.
There's also the bad.
While it's true that many people curate their appearance, there're still glimmers of the actual hardships that people experience.
And when you see this, something like ourself on reddit, when you see the hardships that someone's going for, it makes you feel better about the hardships that you're dealing with and empowers you.
We think that without this, traditional forms of media would be unlikely to give these types of experiences to people, and therefore this is a positive gain.
The second argument they make is about a a loss of privacy in that you become the you become the product, and that people don't understand what they're giving away when they use facebook.
This may have been true five, ten years ago, but in today's day and age, people know that facebook, google, basically every website online is tracking immense amounts of data about them and selling it to people.
But, honestly, I don't think that this is a big deal.
In the vast majority of privacy collection, of data collection, this this information isn't super isn't really indictable of you.
It doesn't really show your worse side because, like, the government brings up, people curate their appearance, and people also don't share every little aspect about themselves on social media.
And we honestly think that if you're going to have ad experiences, if you're going to be marketed to, it's probably a better world if you can be marketed to products that are actually going to be relevant to you than those that aren't.
They talk about posting of children and others who don't choose.
We think that these people will probably grow up in a world where this is accepted as a norm and, therefore, they won't feel harmed by this.
And they say that governments can abuse this too.
First, we don't need to side on on opposition, we don't need to side with oppressive regimes.
We don't think that the data collection and giving of and giving of data to those regimes is a necessary part of social media.
Maybe this is something that should be reformed.
Maybe legislation should be put in place, but this isn't necessary.
We also think that certain oversight is fine.
The government being able to see if someone is likely to join al qaeda is maybe not a bad idea if it can prevent future terrorist attacks.
Finally, the last thing they say is that social media radicalizes each other.
First, we think this is outweighed by the increasing connectivity that we've already talked about, and secondly, we think that if you get rid of social media, people are just going to shift back to other echo chambers.
Like, for example, if you don't have alt-right subreddits, you're probably going to have people still going to alex jones and still viewing fox news.
For these reasons, we should not abandon social media.