Casinos should not be banned.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think casinos are important to have and, at the very least, shouldn't be taken away by the government.
The first argument we want to make is that banning casinos would be a principally unjust ban and therefore something that the government should not pursue.
When we look at the state and we really diagnose it what the state is, at its fundamental level, is a massive coercive apparatus.
It is a body that has the ability to dictate what you as a citizen may or may not do.
It has the ability to decide what rights you're going to have, and it can do this without any sort of massive recourse for the state.
Now, this description makes a state sound a whole lot like a cartel.
It makes it sound very problematic.
And the way that the state becomes just, the way that the state differentiates itself from a bully, is to find some sort of guiding principle that dictates what people would want were they to be able to consent.
Because there's no real meaningful way that people are able to consent to these rights violations and these rights restrictions in the status quo.
There's no contract you sign.
There's no way to consent to , in many instances, hundreds of years of laws.
There's no way to actually firmly affirm your consent to the state.
And there's no opt out process, because you can't just have your own private tract of land that's stateless, you have to be in some sort of state.
So it's a massively coercive system is the the state apparatus.
We think that the way that the state becomes just, it becomes it gains that consent, is to build a state that people would consent to, all in all, if they could.
And we think that the way the state does that is by maximizing freedom.
The reason for that is that what people have in the state of nature is an infinite amount of rights and also an infinite amount of possibility for those rights to be violated, because there's no sort of protection.
There's no sort of apparatus that will safeguard your rights.
So when people have the choice of entering the state, we believe they would do so, any rational person would do so, because the state, in exchange for taking away some of those rights, ensures that most of those rights are upheld.
And because the state's modus operandi should be maximizing freedom, we think that any ban needs to be highly scrutinized.
We think this ban of casinos is one that is unjust.
Firstly because when you go to a casino, you're not impeding on anybody else's freedom.
If I choose to go and spend my money at a casino and lose all of it, well, that may hurt me, but I, with my own free will and my own decision-making, as an adult person, have the ability to make that decision for myself.
The state should not be able to dictate what values I hold and what I deem to be a worthy use of my money.
Secondarily, these don't have a massive communal harm.
Casinos the economic impact of those casinos can vary from place to place but, in large part, they're not stealing resources from other from other surrounding areas.
They're not making the community worse off.
They're not harming people indirectly in a significant way.
And finally, there's no asymmetry of information that makes my rational decision to go to the casino irrational.
I know that I'm likely going to lose.
I know that most people that go to casinos lose money and that it's built in order to make a profit.
Knowing that and having that be widely known means that we don't think that the state is is interceding for a reason that is just.
The state has no reason to ban casinos other than to restrict freedoms, and it doesn't do anything to maximize other freedoms.
And because of this, we think that any sort of ban on casinos would be unjust.
Finally and very quickly, we want to recognize, additionally, that casinos are often a source of revenue for less-developed areas.
Casinos are not incredibly prominent in places like cities but rather in more rural areas that don't have as many jobs available, that don't have as much tourism, that don't have as many people coming and spending money in these areas, and casinos are a good way of attracting people and bringing business to other in bringing business to other businesses in the area of the casino.
For these reasons, casinos should not be banned.