We should not discourage the use of hormonal contraception.
In this round, we're going to make three main arguments about why we think hormonal contraception is both good relative to other methods of birth control and why propagating birth control, generally, is a positive thing.
So why do we think that hormonal contraception is an effective form of birth control?
Well, if you just look at the numbers of levels of effectiveness across various scientific studies, when used appropriately, hormonal contraception has one of the higher rates of preventing unwanted pregnancy.
It means that, yes, while it's sometimes difficult and one slip up, if you don't take one supplement over the course of a a month, you can you can potentially be at risk of not having the method be effective, but this isn't exactly a high bar to meet.
Like, if you're taking your pills every day, if you're staying on top of it, it's an incredibly effective method of birth control, and people can still use other methods of birth control along with hormonal contraception and it doesn't have any sort of negative impact.
So you can still do things like wear condoms in order to prevent STDs, and hormonal contraception provides an additional layer of benefit and an additional protection against unwanted pregnancies.
And, additionally, the side effects of hormonal contraception are generally well known, because it's been used for a fairly long period of time now, and they're fairly easy to catch, and they're not all that they're not all that terrible.
They're types of things that when the when they arise in their worst forms, you can just stop using hormonal contraception, but most of the time, people do not experience severe side effects from this type of birth control.
And, at the end of the day, what this means is that you discouraging the use of hormonal contraception, doing things like getting making it harder for people under the age of eighteen to get it, doing things like not educating the public about it, ultimately just means that you have more unwanted pregnancies, which is unfair to both parties.
It's unfair to the mother of that child and potentially to the father if they remain in the child's life, that they're put in a position that they weren't prepared for.
Whether it be financially, emotionally, it's an incredibly intense burden to bear.
And the alternative, if you are to get an abortion, oftentimes is something that's very emotional, it's very difficult.
It can have its own side effects and its own bad outcomes.
So we think that compared to either of those options, it's preferable for the parent not to have the pregnancy.
And then if the child does come to term, it means that child's life is going to be more difficult than it otherwise would have been if that child was born to a family that was prepared for it.
It means that that child could oftentimes grow up feeling less loved than they deserve to be.
It can mean that that child is not financially well off enough to actually succeed in life.
It means the foundation may not be there that allows that child to grow up in a stable home and in a stable environment, and those are things that we should be trying to prevent.
Not having a child doesn't mean that a life is being taken away, it just means that one harder life is not being created.
And for all of these reasons, we should not discourage the use of hormonal contraception.