We should not protect internet privacy.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think it is, while a nice idea to protect internet privacy, it is preferable, as far as practical terms, not to protect internet privacy.
So, first, we want to talk about the preeminent need for security.
So when we're talking about internet privacy, in large part, we're talking about mass data gathering.
We're talking about not individuals hacking into one person's account or another, which we think we're totally fine protecting, but we're but we're more talking about the government interceding in your life, businesses interceding in your life, but not on an individualized level.
So they have information on you as an individual.
They could compose information on you as an individual, but they're more concerned with the data itself.
They're more concerned with gathering that data.
And from the government's perspective, this is largely in need of security.
When we're talking about modern times in which small small actors, small-scale actors, can cause immense amount of damage through terrorist acts, whether they be religious terrorists or whether they be nationalists, like white nationalists in the united states, there're so many organized groups now that are looking to commit violence against innocent people.
And when you're talking in an in an information age where almost all communication is being done online, where massive amounts of data exist online, and where it is also possible to track these people down and track down these acts before they occur, we think that the state is primarily obligated to protect individual safety and individual well-being and that not and that protecting internet privacy is a serious barrier in order to do so.
And what the government is doing is looking for keywords, it's looking for patterns.
It's looking to stop stop violence before it occurs.
And if you care about any of our rights, if you care about the right to privacy in your personal life even, you first have to have security.
You first have to have health and bodily and bodily well-being in order to enact any of your other rights, in order to make good on them.
And because of that, we think that the state needs to be primarily concerned with security, and because of that, we should allow these violations of internet privacy.
We also think that the other types of invasions of privacy, the mass data gathering by businesses are likely necessary in order to have a robust internet.
And the reason for this is that data collection is how we're able to have sites that we use online.
Sites like facebook are free because you can you can collect data on users and then sell that data to other to other industries in order to advertise more directly, in order to get products in front of people that you're concerned with.
That's how we have a robust internet.
The way that the internet can be free in most parts, the way that it can be something that is open and accessible to everyone is when sites are able to monetize our use of the site without impeding us and impeding our ability to access their site, if the internet was full of paid sites, we think it would be a far less robust system.
We think it would be something that would be less useful, both economically and also interpersonally and socially.
And because of that, we think that the status quo of being able to collect data en masse, we think that this is something that allows the internet to to exist in a way that we all love and appreciate it.
For these reasons, we should not protect internet privacy.