We should not tax infant formulas.
So, in this round, we're gonna make a few arguments about why we think it's both unnecessary to tax infant formulas and, as far as relative to other taxes, why it's unjust.
So, firstly, we think that there's a a massive stigma in the status quo against infant formula formula.
There's people that say that it's unhealthy, that it's dangerous to the child, that there are various consequences that come from not breastfeeding your child, but most of these are not scientifically proven claims.
These are things that people have said in the same vein of anti-vaccinations, in which people have come out with a small amount of of pseudoscientific studies that say that these types of things are problematic, whereas science doesn't think that there's any mainstream-accepted science, actual doctors who deal with babies don't think that there's a major risk to using infant formula.
In fact, for some women, it's preferable.
There're some women that simply aren't able to feed their child.
They aren't able to breastfeed.
There're certain women that are uncomfortable with it.
There're certain cultures that are uncomfortable with it.
And because of that, we think that it's entirely reasonable that a mother, who already has to do so much to take care of this child, this idea that this mother needs to do everything in a perfectly biological way that lines up with social expectations of how a mother is supposed to treat their child, this is just nonsense.
This is putting immense amount of weight onto parents, onto especially mothers, who already have to bear a massive burden by taking care of this child.
And, yes, it may be a burden that they often choose, but it doesn't mean that we should be making it more difficult as a society, and passing a tax on infant formulas just makes it more expensive for women to make decisions about what they want to do with their bodies and what they don't want to do with their bodies.
And we think that that just follows a historical trend of oppression towards women, and this is just another leg on that trend of oppression of of limiting female autonomy in terms of how they want to treat their bodies.
We also think that in terms of just economics, in terms of the tax on infant formulas, we think that this just overwhelmingly impacts lower class people.
We think that any sort of taxes, sales taxes on common goods, on on goods that aren't considered to be luxury items, generally have a disparate impact on the lower class, because oftentimes these are the people that that two percent, three percent tax on an item that it actually has a major impact in their pocketbook.
If you're a relatively wealthy person, it doesn't matter to you if you're spending another five to ten dollars a week on infant formula.
But if you're someone that's barely scraping by and you need to use this infant formula, or if you just have a very strong preference to use this infant formula, something that's not harmful to your baby and something that improves your quality of life, we think that that can be a major difference in having to pay that cost for many people.
And we think that not only is this a sexist form of taxation in which it it it literally only applies to women, women are the only people that have to make this choice over whether or not to buy this product, but in addition to that, we can that it's incredibly classist in the fact that it's a sales tax on a common good that only affects, really, people that are in lower socioeconomic classes.
For the for the for the wealthier individuals, this tax doesn't mean much.
This tax doesn't have a real impact on their bottom line.
And because of that, we think that the tax has disparate impacts on individuals which makes it inherently unequal.
For these reasons, we should not tax infant formulas.