Boarding schools should be abolished.
In this debate, when we're talking about boarding schools, we mean primarily schools in which children are sent to live at the school for extended periods of time.
They usually come home for holiday breaks and over the summer.
The amount of time is not important, but what's important in the debate is the fact that the children live at the schools while the school year is going on, at the very least.
Okay.
So we have two main arguments about why boarding schools should be abolished.
The first argument is about emotional trauma that comes from this, and the second is about social harms of the children in these institutions.
So, on emotional trauma: it's important to recognize that when children are sent away to these schools, even if it is often the case that they are done that they do so during their high school years or early teenage years, it's important to recognize that these people are still are in the point of emotional development that is incredibly important for long-term emotional well-being.
A person experiencing abandonment issues in an early part of their life can lead to long-term fears of abandonment and long-term emotional trauma that can make it harder for them to form close bonds with people, that can make it more difficult for them to be kind and open to other people in their everyday activities, and can make them angry at the world and have long-term problems with socializing with other people and can form antisocial disorders.
So, why is this relevant to boarding schools?
We think that there is an important stigma associated with boarding schools as well as a signaling effect from parents.
When parents who, recognizing that private schools in an area are often have at least equal value as these boarding schools end up being, if not of at least of similar value, so there's no real massive educational benefit to boarding schools.
And given that this is the case, the child sees themselves being sent away as a sign that they're unwanted or that they're the troubled child, and as the troubled child, they they must go to the boarding school.
And that's the stigma that's associated with boarding schools in popular culture.
It's that if you get sent away to boarding school, it's because you are a problem that your parents do not want to deal with any longer.
When someone internalizes the notion that they are a problem, this can lead to them acting out in any number of ways in their future life, but it also lets them know that they are unwanted, that they are an other within their social circle and within their own family, the tightest of all social circles that individuals can be brought up within.
And given that this is the case, we think that boarding schools, more often than not, lead to this type of emotional trauma in children that leads to them facing antisocial disorders in the future and leads to them having less emotionally well-balanced lives in the long run.
So the second thing we're going to talk about quickly is social harms.
We think that a major problem with boarding schools is they form an echo chamber of those that are within the boarding school.
And while we recognize that people in boarding schools still have access to the internet and still have access to outside interaction, when you spend the vast majority of your time with the same group of people and you don't return home to an outside environment, when your work, your your daily environment is the same as your outside environment and the stimuli is the same, we think there is an immense likelihood that an echo chamber forms in which normal which norms and mores of the of that group are not able to be challenged by an outside force.
And we don't think that's the case that most boarding schools have bad norms and social mores being taught to their students, but in cases when this is the case or in cases in which the students themselves start to form these bad habits and bad social mores, we think that they are self-replicating systems in which people who are put into these boarding schools have no real way of breaking out of that echo chamber.
We think that this is a bad environment to learn your social learn how to create social interactions.
We think that this increases the long-term likelihood of antisocial behavior as well as harms those by inculcating them with bad ideas and bad mores while they're in the school.
Boarding schools don't provide any sort of immense educational benefit, but they open students up to immense trauma.
For these reasons, boarding schools should be abolished.