We should not introduce year round schooling.
In this round, before we get into the individual arguments that we will rebut from the government side, we want to advance two broad principles that will come into that will interweave with the responses we give through out the round.
The first is that we think that at this point in societies that don't have year round schooling such as the united states, that society is built around the status quo in big ways.
There are seasonal jobs that have sprung up in many sectors that require the labor of people that otherwise would be in school under the government's plan, there is expectations of vacation time, there's expectations of time to give yourself a mental break.
All these things are built into the way that students prepare for the school year, envision the school year and have expectations, as well as the economy, how it prepares, and we think that the status quo doing making this change would be too disruptive to the status quo.
The second argument is that we think that despite the fact that it may not be the most utile in the sense that it's not as productive as may be going to school more, we think that it's important that students have time to sufficiently relax and be children.
The benefit of being a child, the benefit of being a young person, is that you don't have to be living your entire life to be productive.
You don't have to be constantly cranking out new material or cranking out new things at your job.
It's the ability to have some sort of relaxation which is so crucial for someone who's developing as a young person.
The time to take a mental break from school.
Which is why the plan the government proposes, of increasing from thirty six to forty eight weeks we think is just ludicrous.
The first argument they make is that this better facilitates learning because you forget things over the summer and you have to relearn this in fall.
We think that this is largely offset by things like summer work which which create a good balance between forcing you to learn during the summer and forcing you to take time during the summer to reinforce the lessons from the year before, and giving you the opportunity to learn at your own pace, decide when you're going to do this learning, give you it's significantly less work than you would otherwise have in schools so it still gives you a good mental break but it means you don't have to spend a month in the fall re-learning material, maybe you have to spend a couple of days going over some material but we don't think that that in the long run is a major impact.
They say you get more time in the classroom but we think this is outweighed by the need for mental health breaks and points of relaxation for students.
And they acknowledge that students may be working, which for many people is necessary during the summer.
It's necessary to bring in some extra income to your home.
It's necessary because if you as a child want to be doing, want to spend money in some way, your parents might not have it to give to you and this is a way to make yourself self-sufficient.
But government takes away the possibility of that altogether because seasonal jobs no longer an option.
Secondly they say this helps parents in that there's no childcare costs because you can just have students in these schools anyway and that if you're going to have free childcare, which we agree you should have, you might as well teach.
But the difference between having free childcare with like a school component and free childcare that is just basically a summer camp is that it gives that mental health break for students to to relax, to enjoy themselves, to be kids and it likely costs less money than it means you you're likely spending less money, because you don't have to pay as many teachers and there's less time that you have to spend doing homework so it's overall a much larger impact on students to be in school than is to be in school but not learning.
The final argument is that this is a better use of resources and it's a waste of school infrastructure not to be using them all the time, but given that the infrastructure itself is a sum cost, we actually think it's more it it is less costly to taxpayers not to have year round schooling because of the increased cost in like air conditioning and upkeep and all of the things that are required to like make the school habitable which we think would create massive increased costs for society.
So we don't think in terms of resource use that it is a particularly bad use of resources.
For these reasons we should not introduce year round schooling.