We should not increase international volunteering.
So some people may hear this motion and think, I don't understand, of course we should increase volunteering.
Volunteering is just something that's good for people to do.
That is the trap that has fallen under when you follow the government side of this motion.
What we are going to explain is that international volunteering creates a false sense of solvency, a sense of solvency that makes it harder to address the actual structural issues that arise in developing nations that these tourists and that these volunteer groups fail to address.
And the second thing we're talking about is that when these volunteer groups go in it's done in a way that replicates colonial harms.
So on that false sense of solvency: we think there are two groups in which there's a false sense of solvency.
Not for the people on the ground because they're the people the people that live in these areas the citizenry of these developing nations where international voluntourism tends to occur, but firstly, for the volunteers that go into the situation.
These people go to these areas for a couple of weeks at a time and they think that this situation has been altered in some fundamental way.
They think they've solved the problem because they've helped to install a well in one village or because they've seen people develop over the course of the two weeks that they've been there or they've gotten this sort of purpose from their trip.
But this isn't actually what solves especially structural issues as is the case in most of these developing nations where international volunteering is most prominent.
What does this mean?
It means these people are less likely to give aid in the future because they think that they've done their part to address this harm, even though they've done their part to mitigate harm for a very small fraction of the people that are actually being impacted.
It also means that they're less likely to advocate for national assistance in their own country.
If I'm a rich american that goes over to a slum, installs a well, leaves and thinks, oh, everything is good, everything is fine for this area now or there are tons of people like me that are going over and doing the same thing, I'm less likely to try and go to my government or to advocate in my political desires that my government give more international aid, put more pressure on abusive systems and abusive states to stop harming their people.
I'm less likely to advocate for structural reform in those areas and that's what these areas really need.
The second thing is it creates a veil of solvency that allows leaders to deflect responsibility.
This is especially true for areas with lack of suitable government management or with bad state actors.
When you can point to these sorts of projects that are springing up to say, our country is developing, our country is improving, it allows you to deflect especially in the international realm from harms that you're doing upon your citizens on a daily basis.
So why is this also a colonialist approach to solutions?
This volunteering is usually led and directed by western, non state actors.
There are international volunteering groups that come together and they say, we're going to solve this problem in this country without going to leaders in those communities.
Without speaking to people on the ground and actually getting an understanding of what those groups need.
They decide what the community needs rather than the other way around.
And what this means is it repeats cycles of colonialism that took away agency from domestic actors in the past and continues to take away their agency in the present even if their agency is being stripped from them in order to give them a well.
We don't think that this is how the system should work.
We would prefer a world in which funding, assistance, but not direction of what the projects are or people on the ground uplift actors in those nations.
Nations developing nations can do just as much good and probably even more good with the money that's spent on these international volunteering tours than the groups can do while they're there in the first place.
For these reasons we should not increase international volunteering.