We should introduce universal healthcare.
We're going to present two main arguments in this debate.
The first is about rights and why universal healthcare would fulfill the right to healthcare that people have and secondly about the economic benefits that would come from universal health care.
So firstly on rights.
We would say that health is a necessary right to access any right that you can conceive of that you think is valuable.
Whether it's the right to free mobility, the right to bodily autonomy, the right to life, all these things require a bare minimum level of health for people to access those types of things.
We think that rights shouldn't be available and attainable only based on class alone.
But in the status quo, this is the case.
If you are too poor to afford health insurance, but too rich to be on medicaid, or if you're in a country that doesn't have such social make safety nets, we think that what currently exists is a system in which it is not possible and not feasible for you to access the basic right of average, standard health.
And while some people would say they don't want to have a health care system, they don't want to get insurance, it's simply the case and it is a fact that all people, or almost all people, will need to access health insurance and health care at some point in their life.
And those that are less likely to get insurance in the short term are those that are in the long term most likely to be harmed because of that lack of insurance, because suddenly they get some sort of disease and insurers are unwilling to cover them at the point at which they need to to have those costs covered by an insurance company, because healthcare as it currently stands is incredibly expensive.
We don't think that economic class should dictate whether or not you are able to live a healthy life and we think that it is simply the case that by providing insurance through the government, by providing universal healthcare, you're more likely to provide quality and expansive care.
The reason for this is that insurance companies currently can provide low quality care because insurance companies are often the only providers or one of very few providers in any given area.
What you have in the united states government though is a system that is accountable to the voters.
If you provide sub-par healthcare to individuals they will know because health care is a very important political topic, and they will vote you out of office because you have a real negative impact on their lives and voters are unafraid to speak their minds.
We think that you're more likely to get quality access to the right of health care if it's run by the government through universal health care system.
So secondly, on the economy and why you we think you get cheaper healthcare in the long run.
Firstly, we think that single payer healthcare increases the collective bargaining power by shifting the ability to bargain with hospitals and pharmaceutical companies and other types of healthcare providers all into the hands of the government.
It means that the entire government was capable of lobbying and bargaining for the with the power of the entire population of any state with insurance with health care coverage providers.
What this means is that you have more capability to flex your strength, your more capability of shifting your assets and shifting your your your money and other types of funds to other areas and it makes it more likely that healthcare providers will cowtail to what you need demanded.
Furthermore, uninsured end up getting healthcare in the status quo.
If you're uninsured and you go to a hospital you'll get treated and when you can't afford to pay that bill that bill is then passed on to the american taxpayer.
So just because we're covering all people doesn't mean that in the status quo all people don't defacto get covered by the US government and finally we think insurance is a non productive use of assets.
We think that given that insurance is not an innovative industry it doesn't produce anything that can then be sold in a meaningful free market, we think that it is better to leave this type of care, insurance type of care, to the government, a nonproductive entity, and allow private funds to be diverted into more productive resources.
For these reasons we should introduce universal healthcare.