We should not fight urbanization.
So, in this round, we're going to respond to the arguments made by the government side and explain why we think, overall, despite the hardships that we acknowledge are true for those that move to urban areas, especially in developing nations, we still think that urbanization is overall beneficial for these countries.
The first argument that the government makes is that this undermines traditional cultures, oftentimes because these cultures are tied to specific lands or because when you move, for example, to an urban area, you have to learn how to speak the major language in the area and you forget your former languages, etcetera.
Look, we think that the argument that people lose their culture is only valuable insofar as people value that culture.
So if people choose to abandon their culture, if people don't find it to be strong enough or tied enough to it that they decide to carry it with them, then that is a decision that those people can make for themselves.
Despite us, from our western's perspective, standing up on our high horses and saying, " oh, we value all cultures, " it's really the people embedded in those cultures that can make the decision for themselves about whether or not to value that culture to a degree that they need to stay tied to rural areas.
We think that people know about the transition costs of moving away from these urban areas and because of that, we think that all of these cultural arguments are ultimately going to be outweighed by the potential for a higher quality of life in urban areas.
The second argument that they make is that this type of organization is simply not desirable in that it's not like people are just moving to new york city and getting great jobs, like in developed countries, but that in developing countries, people are moving to areas like karachi or jakarta and moving into slums.
We think that moving into a slum region still has benefits over rural areas.
But before we say any of that, we think that if it is the case that people are misinformed, we have no argument with informing them, making people more capable of making decisions for themselves about the risks of urbanization.
If you're going to expend resources fighting urbanization, we think that you should just instead spend the resources to inform people about the costs and benefits of urbanization and let they make the decisions for themselves.
Because, frankly, from the country's perspective, having people concentrated in single areas makes it easier to facilitate resources, makes it easier for economies to develop, and makes it better for those people overall, because those resources that are available in urban areas simply aren't available outside of them.
We think that even if you're living in slums, the access to a higher quality wage job means that you can accumulate wealth in a way that wasn't possible in the rural area and means that you have higher future prospects than you otherwise would have had, even if not for you, then for future generations, which we think most people would prefer.
The final argument they make is that this leads to poor development, and it pushes the government's priority to urban areas over rural areas, but we think that this is actually a misconstrual of the order of operations.
Rather, we think that the fact that urban areas are giving preference in terms of resource allocation is a matter of practicality rather than a matter of of just preferring urban areas.
The fact is it's so much easier to facilitate a sewer system, to put the cost into that sewer system, when that sewer system is going to help a highly dense area than it is to go and put in a sewer system for a village that has a population of two hundred people.
If you have to expend a similar amount of resources and, especially in developing nations, those resources are limited, the government is always going to give preference to urban areas, despite whether or not we fight urbanization.
And because of this, moving to urban areas provides a clear benefit in terms of resource gains to the people that move there.
For these reasons, we should not fight urbanization.