We should introduce a pollution tax.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments but first a model.
We would say that we're going to introduce a pollution tax broadly on both emissions so things like carbon emissions, fossil fuel burning, as well as pollution into the environment.
So if you're found to pollute things like water supplies, if you're dumping waste into landfills, the more waste you produce the higher we would tax and we think these tax rates are going to be substantial.
We don't want to get into a specific number but we're willing to take on a burden of very high tax rates.
Alright first, we think in order for there to be a fair market, to create a fair capitalist market you must introduce these taxes.
We think in the status quo businesses are able to pollute without any real cost to themselves especially when it comes to carbon emissions but that cost does get passed on to the consumers and to society writ large in the harms that are accrued from things like climate change and climate change has real negative economic value that is passed on throughout the whole of society but this negative economic value doesn't impact the bottom lines of these companies.
In many sectors when companies cause negative externalities, they're forced to bear the cost of that either by raising their prices, by paying fines and taxes, through lawsuits, but this isn't the case right now for the vast majority of pollution.
Businesses are able to pollute without having any sort of cost accrue to them and so we think that they're essentially getting a tax break in the status quo.
They're essentially getting a subsidy because they don't have to bear the cost of this negative externality.
We think it's only fair to competitive businesses in things like the energy sector that are doing things like being green and moving to green production to level the playing field and we think the tax makes green versus non-green products much more competitive price-wise because now suddenly these green products which may have a higher cost to produce are now being competing against another product that is made with pollution that has that increased cost priced into the to the actual price of the product and we think it's incredibly important to get green companies because of our second point which is that global warming and environmental degradation are causing huge problems for society.
There's two major types of pollution broadly.
First, there's pollution that leads to global warming things like carbon emissions.
This is devastating to our environment.
It will literally end the livability of our planet if it goes unchecked.
We're already approaching the point near no return.
We think tax increases tax increase costs and terse fossil fuels it's again again making it more competitive with green technology and it makes businesses more likely to switch over and consumers more likely to buy green products when they no longer have to just consider the price difference but now they get to they get to consider two different products of equal price and one that's the more ethical and responsible decision long term but secondly, there's also pollution that just damages the the ecology of an area and harms and creates more harms without global warming.
These are things that also have real harms.
Look at things like when water supplies get polluted with chemicals and waste.
Areas of land are made uninhabitable by landfills and dumps.
Whole environmental whole environmental ranges are wiped out and these ecologies in these areas have a very delicate food chain.
There are long term and unpredictable unpredictable ramifications on the environment in these systems when they're disrupted.
This also doesn't just hurt like the environment but it hurts people.
Like look at the example of flint michigan in which people were not able to drink tap water.
They didn't have a clean access to water in the united states of america, the most developed, the leader of the free world.
These people in a city didn't have access to clean water because businesses were able to pollute water supplies with no check.
For these reasons, we should introduce a pollution tax.