We should not fight illegal immigration.
We're going to take a very bold stance in this round and we're going to say that in addition to not fighting illegal immigration, governments, especially in developed developed countries, should have a policy of open borders in which anyone that wishes to become a an a resident of that of that country can do so, in which citizenship is very easy to acquire.
We think that states in the modern world should not separate themselves and keep people out based on borders.
So let's break that down.
Firstly, it's important to recognize that borders, in most instances, are incredibly arbitrary.
Looking at countries such as those in africa that were that were divided up based on colonial and not even cultural boundaries, looking at nations that don't have any sort of geological boundary between them, most nations have simply arbitrary reasons for the border placement that they have.
They simply had a treaty at some point that designated a border or they took land, at one point, and designated that as their border.
So, it's important to recognize that borders are innate to the country, where borders are drawn is arbitrary.
And we think that despite despite anything that may arise from borders, all humans deserve the same equal amount of rights.
Based on your birth, you have no less claim to anything than where someone else than anyone else no matter where you were born.
Borders create an exclusionary principle.
They create an exclusionary practice in which people are given special benefits because of the lottery of birth, because of the luck of where they were born, and other people are not allowed to have those same benefits.
We think that this is fundamentally unjust, that getting that society should govern themselves not based on what is expedient, not based on moral morally arbitrary factors like the location of your birth, but rather based on the principles that all people are equal and all people deserve equal consideration.
And furthermore, we think that people have noble intentions when they illegally immigrate.
They we think they deserve to pursue those intentions.
For example, many people flee countries because of violence, people we their countries for economic opportunity that simply doesn't exist, to provide a better a better life for themselves and for their families.
This is an incredibly noble pursuit that should not be ended.
Furthermore, immigrants contribute to the economy and the culture of any of any country that they go to.
Immigrants come in and they work.
They provide economic value.
They provide productivity productive capacity.
These are all things that are important, especially for developed economies that need more and more people to work in the service sector, that are more capable of supporting these these people coming into their countries, etcetera.
Furthermore, many illegal immigrants, when we're talking about fighting illegal immigration, these are people that have been in our communities, that had been living in our country for years, for decades, many people brought over during their childhood and know no other home.
We think it's important to recognize those people are a fundamental part of the fight against illegal immigration that is being waged right now.
Those are people that are essentially, even if not by law, they are, by their actions, citizens of our countries.
They are members of our communities.
They are our neighbors.
They're people that we should care for.
And the fact that they may not have come into the to the country legally does not change the fact that they've been contributing to the country, that they have brought valuable a valuable aspect to our country, whether it be their labor, their culture, their kindness and their empathy, these are people that should be treated as humans and not as living criminality.
For these reasons, we should not fight illegal immigration.