We should abolish foster care.
So, we know we have to give an alternative, and that's what we're going to start by doing.
We think that the alternative to foster care is threefold: firstly, more orphanages for children below a certain age.
We think that there's a certain age at which children are unlikely to be adopted, and at that point we would be willing to open what we would consider to be similar to boarding schools, in which children are given a solid foundation.
They're raised by teachers and by peers, they grow up in an environment where they know their peers, they're not going to be moved around a lot, and they're able to get a good education similar to how children are able to live without their parents in a boarding school.
And finally, we would think that more kinship care would be the case.
So children more often going to live with family in a more stable environment.
Okay, two reasons why foster care needs to be abolished.
The first is that it's often abusive and the second is that we think these alternatives solve better for the children's needs, and the children's needs are most important in this debate.
So how's foster care often abusive?
Foster homes oftentimes are run by individuals who take in many children at one time.
This is often for the financial benefits that come and are associated with being a foster parent and doing foster care.
So what happens is people take in like a dozen children at one time let's say, and they're able to collect the tax benefits in the benefits that are come with fostering those children, and spend a fraction of the money on raising the children, and are able to use that money to do what they want to do in their life.
To have in their pocket.
To finance their own well being.
We also think that when this happens and when people are put into these homes, they're put into spaces that are cramped.
There's little personal care, there's little personal space and there's little emotional help, because of two things: first, these children often move from home to home at sporadic periods of time, which means they have no foundation.
They have no support structure in their life and no adult in their life that is a cornerstone of their life.
Someone that they can look to for advice and for guidance.
Because they are moved from one place to the other constantly.
At least when you have an orphanage or a boarding school you have some sort of stability.
You're staying in one place for a long period of time and even if you don't have parents there are adults who are around you that can be a guiding force in your life unlike in foster care.
And secondarily you're not in the same kind of the same kind of cramped environment, the same kind of environment in which other children are moving around all around you and the environment in which you don't have people who are actually trained to take care of you as you could have in boarding schools or orphanages.
Okay so why do these alternatives solve better for children's needs?
When children are in foster care and when children are of young age where they could be adopted, they are often in a stage in which any time that you rip them away from one home to put them into a next, they gain a sense of abandonment.
They gain the sense that people don't that people don't care for them, that their life is less meaningful than the lives of other people around them.
And those types of issues stick with the child for their entire life.
Even if a child isn't adopted and they spend their whole life in this boarding school until they can go on and be independent adult, at least at that point they've had structure in their life.
They've had a foundation, an education that they can use for the rest of their life, and they'll have had mentors along the way.
Mentors in this boarding school.
Adults who cared for them, who showed empathy for them and didn't just leave when that child no longer served to benefit them in some way.
Finally, we think that providing sturdy education can allow those children to be successful in the future.
That when they become adults they have a better foundation than when they come out of foster care, moving from one schooling environment the next, not being able to complete their coursework, not being able to get an understanding of what's going on in the school environment.
All these things are things that are robbed from children when they bounce from one foster home to the next which is unfortunately what foster care looks like for the vast majority of people that are within it.
We think that the alternatives are solve far better than foster care, and for these reasons we should abolish foster care.