We should not cancel pride parades.
So before we get into rebutting the arguments made by the government side, we want to explain why we think pride parades are so important.
We think that pride parades allow for a marginalized community, a community that until very recently has mainly had to remain in the dark due to social stigma, it allows this community to not only come together when it is largely disparate and it is largely spread out, it allows people to come together that otherwise wouldn't have found each other and form relationships, form communities, form bonds, and form support structures, but also it allows for a celebration that has never before been allowed for this community: to say that we are here, we are proud, we are we are human, and we deserve to be celebrated, we deserve to be accepted.
We think that this pride parade not that pride parades not only allow for this community to come together and to celebrate, but it also comes in tandem with wider discussions.
For example, many pride parades are hosted in the same month, and it creates something like a pride month in which people talk about LGBT issues and they talk about issues both in the community and in their societies.
And we think it allows for a larger discussion and that for many people they're able to experience this either as allies or they're able to have more empathy with people, once they hear stories that are elevated because of these parades, because of this kind of month that occurs.
And so we think that pride not only allows for positive self-affirmation for members of the community, but it also allows people outside of the community to get a better understanding of their trials and tribulations.
Responding now to the three arguments made by the government side.
The first is that this creates a target on the community, that the LGBT community is already the target of a ton of different hate crimes and that in example, in israel, there a counter-protests and attacks on on these pride parades.
So, three responses to this.
First, whether or not there is one instance of these things happening, it is empirically the case that the odds of some sort of a hate crime like this are incredibly low in these for these parades, one, because there's often a ton of security provided both by organizers but also by public officials ; two, because it is because this gathering is often so large, it's unlikely that any sort of major counter-protest will occur.
These gatherings, these parades, also often happen in more urban areas which are generally more accepting of the LGBT community.
But more importantly, we think that this argument is just a reason to give into hate, that revolutionaries and that freedom fighters in the past have, time and again, faced these challenges and much worse, and we think that it is important that these people still allow themselves to come together as a community and affirm that they deserve to exist and that they should be proud of who they are.
We think that it spits in the face of the entire gay rights movement to say that these pride parades shouldn't occur because of fear, because of the attacks on them, because these are issues that they face in their day-to-day life.
But what they don't get in their day-to-day life is a time for public celebration of their identity.
The second issue that the government side says is that this is bad for public opinion and that many moderates are turned off by being, essentially, faced with gay people.
So we think that, in general, if someone is is going to be turned off by a pride parade to the extent that they no longer believe that these people have the right to some like basic to like just basic rights, we think that these are probably not going to be the people that are advocates for them anyway and aren't going to be a tipping point for meaningful legislation.
The final argument they make is that pride parades give undue power to organizers and put power in these organizers' hands.
But, frankly, these organizers are often the leaders of local LGBT communities anyway.
They're often thought leaders.
They're often organizing leaders anyway.
And so we think that even if they are spouting bad ideas, it is non-unique to pride parades, and ultimately not a reason that they should be cancelled.
For these reasons, we should not cancel pride parades.