Casinos should be banned.
So we think that this motion is fairly straightforward.
We would say that within the state all casinos should be banned.
Gambling itself we would say is a different topic but casinos are widespread gambling in one place in the way the casinos are set up, we would ban all of them.
Alright we only have one main argument to make in this round but we think that is the most important argument in this debate and this is that in a factual sense, the gambling that takes place in casinos is rigged and that en masse it will always harm the people on net compared to the good that it does for some people that win.
So why do we think that this is the most important argument before we explain it.
We think that one of the primary focuses of the government is to make hard decisions for people when the government is more aware of the information and is more capable of making rational choices than the people are.
We think that as a species humanity is incredibly bad at long term planning and in internalizing in in internalizing very complex ideas.
One of those complex ideas are the odds of actually winning big at a casino.
The actual odds and statistical likelihood of someone being successful weighed against the statistical likelihood of someone losing dramatically more money than they're likely to win.
Given that people are bad at internalizing these values and that we know that casinos are set up in any number of ways to ensure that the house always wins, that they are a profitable system for casino owners and a not profitable system for casino patrons, we think that because the government is aware of these facts the government should step in and ban casinos and unlike other instances where you can ban something or you could regulate it to some immense degree, there's no regulation that can take place with a casino that's going to prevent it from having all of the harms of being rigged to favor the house.
If you were to do that these casinos would just close on their own anyway because they wouldn't be profitable anymore and at that point you're basically banning them even if you're not outright banning them.
So what do casinos actually do to ensure that they are always going to win?
Casinos create a number of structures in the construction of those buildings in the way they construct the games to ensure they win.
Despite on top of the odds in the way that the games themselves are built, they're also built to try and keep people in these casinos for as long as possible.
You create buildings that don't allow you to see that it's dark outside or that the sun has come up or to know what's going on in the outside world so you're totally fixated on those casinos.
They glamorize casinos so that people don't understand how likely they are to win.
They show the winners and they lie and they deceive to the people through marketing about what these casinos could actually do for them and you make it easy for people to gamble far beyond your means.
There's very little check in these casinos to see that someone has some sort of a problem and that they're losing not only their own money but the money that is necessary for people that that rely on them for family and friends and people that are close to them they lose their money as well.
People are horrible long term planners and the state must step in in this instance to ensure that people don't harm those around them through gambling away what is most important to them, for gambling away their savings, the money that they've earned throughout their life.
We think that at the end of the day, in a world in which casinos are banned the vast majority of people who would visit casinos regularly are going to be net better for their lives.
They're going to have net more money.
They're going to have lost fewer things.
They're going to have burned fewer relationships than if those casinos had not been banned and we think when the government is making a decision about paternalism that is the key factor and because of this casinos should be banned.