Prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory.
We think that prenatal diagnosis being mandatory leads to a world that is better for the health of the child, better preparation for the family and for the parents of this child, and we think we can do it in a way where there's no real harm of making this mandatory.
So we're going to start with that first.
We believe that prenatal diagnosis as part of a comprehensive system of healthcare is something that many people are already able to access.
People that have health insurance should be able to access this type of care as a standard part of their health insurance.
So after those people, aside from those people in making this mandatory for those people, we think that we can subsidize other individual to get prenatal diagnosis done in order to ensure that the health of the baby is at a high level and to ensure that parents are aware when there are potential risks to the health of the child before that child is born.
Yes, this could be very costly, but we think it is incredibly important for the well-being of all parties involved, and we think that as a standard part of healthcare, it's something that people should have a right to be able to access and that children, because of the harm that can come from them if their parents aren't aware, have a right to have this done in their own protection.
So, firstly, on why this is better for the health of the baby.
Babies who have these health risks, who have the types of diseases and illnesses and birth defects that can be seen through prenatal diagnosis, almost always need much more assistance than regular children do.
They need either some sort of extra medical care, they need some sort of extra nursing, they need some extra benefit for them in order to grow up and be healthy.
When you, as a parent, know that this is a risk that your child is going to face, it gives you much more time and much more, the potential to gather resources to help that child with special needs is much higher than if a child is born and all of a sudden parents, in the moment that they believe is going to be a beautiful one, in the moment they believe is going to change their life for the better, all of a sudden they need to start thinking about how they're going to save this child's life.
We think that's a situation in which parents are much more likely to panic, and in which parents are going to be woefully unprepared for the challenge that they're going to face in trying to raise this child and aren't going to be able to do it in a satisfactory manner, which ultimately could harm the child after they're born.
So, secondly, on better preparation for the family.
We think that parents should know what risk they are taking onto themselves, what obligations they're taking onto themselves before they have a child.
And it is true that children that are born with health defects, with birth defects, present a different set of challenges to parents moving forward.
We think that prenatal diagnosis, making it mandatory, gives them an opportunity to make two vital decisions: first, whether or not they want to go through with the pregnancy.
Yes, it may seem kind of bad that we're going to simply have an abortion because a child has some sort of health defect, but think about the fact that if someone was going to make that decision, in the alternative world in which they didn't make that decision, they're probably not going to give that child a very good upbringing.
They're not going to provide that child with the love and support that that child needs to be successful, and having that child come to term and be born, dooms that child to a much more difficult life than they deserve to face.
If they aren't going to abort, it gives that parent time to mentally prepare themselves for the challenges they're going to face, to become aware of what is necessary of them to raise their child in a healthy manner, and to undertake all of these responsibilities prior to the child being born, giving you much more time to prepare both mentally, physically, and fiscally for the risk you're taking on.
For these reasons, prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory.