We should not prohibit slum tourism.
We think that what the government side has tried to do in this round is paint a picture of slum tourism that looks at it like every tourist company that goes through is some massive corporation run in a foreign country, that every rich person that comes through is pointing and laughing at the local at the locals there, and that the locals are somehow captives in their in their surroundings and, additionally, that rich people from the west just never care about the situations when they leave, and that everything that they learn on the surface level just phases through them after a couple of weeks.
So, while this is certainly true of some slum tourism, we think it's important to recognize that like any other industry, slum tourism has a variety of different aspects and a variety of different practices that takes place, that ranges from people just going in, in these worst-case scenarios, like the government side said, but also people often provide like do service projects in these areas, they work directly like these companies work directly with local communities, and sometimes these companies are, surprisingly, not very large and are actually run by locals in these areas.
So, we think there's three direct benefits of slum tourism.
The first is that, to some degree, some revenue comes in to these areas because of slum tourism.
And while a very small amount of revenue may not seem like a big deal to the government side, it can actually be quite a massive deal to people that are living on less than a dollar a day, which is often what we see in the slums.
The second thing is that we think that it bridges the empathy gap.
We think that even if you're only seeing these people for a short period of time and you're not really getting to know them, actually being in these areas makes you understand what it is like to live in that situation in a way that you can never get just from watching it on TV or from seeing it on the internet.
And we think that while that empathy gap being bridged doesn't always provide positive outcomes in the end, if it does in some instances, that is preferable than having it never occur.
And thirdly, we think that as a free business and as a free society, because there's no direct third-party harm being created for the people that live in these areas, we'll address the harms that the government side tries to bring up in a second, but because there's no direct third-party harm, we think that these businesses should be free to operate.
So let's respond directly to the government side.
The first thing they talk about is the profiting of suffering, and they say, who really benefits from this?
Mainly just large corporations and rich westerners who don't end up doing anything.
So cross apply the arguments I've already made about the variety of different corporations and even non-corporate entities that run these tours, and two, cross apply the argument I made about the empathy gap being bridged and that for some people they really do act upon these tours.
But, finally, they say locals are actively harmed because they're degraded, and they compare them to like animals in a zoo, but it's just not the case that they're like animals in the zoo.
There's no direct harm from someone coming through there.
Like, let's let's look at it in this way: if you're living in a slum, how much worse is your life being made if someone is going through your community and occasionally taking a picture of your community?
Like you don't go into these people's homes or anything.
We think this is just a a mischaracterization of what these tours look like, on the government side.
But the final thing the government says actually contradicts every single thing they say before that, which is that slum tourism leads to gentrification.
If this is true, then it means that people take an active investment in the community and try to put money into the community directly by living there, by working there, by doing those types of things and, clearly, slum tourism would be a benefit.
But we think that slum tourism has never led to gentrification in any given area.
And I think the government side making the comparison of how gentrification leads to a whole foods instead of a stop and shop acknowledges this.
Because slum tourism is not taking place in harlem, it's taking place in the slums of mumbai, and these are areas that people are just not moving into.
And even if a few individuals did move into the slums of mumbai, it's not going to raise housing prices dramatically, because they are still slums.
For these reasons, we should not prohibit slum tourism.