We should end development aid.
In this round we're going to make two main arguments about why we think development aid does more harm than good.
So firstly, let's talk about the problems at home that development aid fails to address.
In the status quo, we believe that the government itself is simply a coercive body, all governments.
It's the body that has the sole ability to use coercive force within its borders and it takes because of that ability to use force, it takes a percentage of individual earnings without any opt out through the form of taxes.
You can't choose not to pay your taxes even if you really don't want to and the government then becomes legitimate and just by serving the needs of its constituents by using the funds that it has taken from them in order to do good for its people.
By collecting those funds and doing more doing greater good with the collected funds than otherwise could have been done through each person spending those funds individually.
International aid falls outside of these boundaries.
While it may be generally good for people to give aid to countries and people in need and to give development aid and to try and help these countries build up their infrastructure.
Like in theory this may be a good thing but we say that the government has an obligation to put its funds back into the state and to public service because those funds were taken away without the consent of the people.
Many domestic issues exist that need to be addressed in the status quo.
Our own infrastructure that for us in the united states needs to be improved, let alone the development of infrastructure abroad.
More additionally, there's our education system which lags behind those of almost every other developed nation in the world.
You can always put that money towards national defense.
Defense being the most important foundational responsibility of the state or it could be used to pay for something like healthcare.
Something that in the united states has the highest cost again of almost any other developed nation in the world.
So maybe development aid would be acceptable if there were no other things that the aid could be spent on.
But it is clearly not the case that that is that that is the world we live in.
There are clearly other things that this money could be used for and it's crucial that this money and only just for this money to be spent domestically which precludes development aid.
Secondarily, we think that development aid causes a dependency problem.
Development aid often leaves countries dependent on nations for assistance moving forward.
In addition to the fact that this money is often spent inefficiently because of things like systems and things like projects of building roads that go to nowhere.
But even if there is development of infrastructure, even if these projects go well, you still need to build up businesses and jobs and a service sector and there's no internal revenue from projects that put together that development to use in order to do this.
There's no sort of increased revenue from those development projects.
May be that because these projects were paid for entirely out of pocket and it's often the case that any sort of benefit, the right to taxation, or the right to some sort of economic gains, development aid is almost always given with something tied to it, some sort of kickback to the state and because of that there's very little likelihood that states will be able to get any sort of profit from this development just the development itself.
Which means that the state if it wants to accomplish building of its economy further, still needs to go out and still needs to get further and further aid from these nations again creating a dependency system.
We think it's preferable for these states to tax themselves, to build up this infrastructure themselves to get loans internationally in order to do these types of things and to build your credit on the world stage.
But frankly, development aid doesn't even accomplish what it should and it is theft.
It is it is paramount to theft as it takes money from the people, from the domestic nation and it puts it abroad without the consent of the domestics.
For these reasons, we should end development aid.