We should not increase local government.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think the status quo level of control that the local government has is sufficient.
So, the first argument we want to make is fairly broad, and we want to break it down into two parts.
But, overall, we want to talk about the importance of consistency of laws across borders.
The first thing that we would say is a principled claim that for the vast majority of laws and regulations that a just government should be passing, laws having to do with criminal offenses, laws having to do with civil offenses, laws having to do with how we interact on a day-to-day level with other people, these should be fairly uniform across a large amount of political space.
Because, yes, while it's certainly true that culture can impact the laws that a society holds, when you're within a &amp;hes when when you're within a nation, when you're within a single country, the laws that exist from one town to the next, the cultures that exist from one town to the next are not so dissimilar that the vast majority of legislation shouldn't principally be the same, that people aren't interacting in the same sorts of spheres of understanding, and that and that the laws that we have wouldn't be consistent from one town to the next.
The vast majority of laws in my own town are essentially the same as the laws the town next door.
But we think it's not just an argument of principle, that we shouldn't just have more consolidated larger systems of government to ensure legislation is consistent for principled reasons, but also because it's important practically.
It's important to know, first, as a in terms of potential criminal offenses.
It's you in order to really have been truly guilty of a crime, we think that it's important that you know that you are committing that crime.
But when you have small, different when you have small differences between laws across local borders, this can mean that you can be found guilty of a crime that you don't even realize you were committing.
But additionally, look at how we legislate business and how we legislate markets.
If you give more local control to if you give more local government control over how those markets work over local regulations of business and interaction in that sphere, we think that it makes it incredibly difficult to conduct businesses of any scale.
If you're a moderately-sized business and you're doing and you're having and you're selling goods to a variety of people from various areas or, especially, if you're performing some sort of a service, knowing regulations apply to you, knowing what you are legally and not legally allowed to offer, to sell, how to how you can construct your contracts, what regulations are covering your industry in that particular area, if these things vary widely from one town to the next, then we think that that creates massive practical problems in terms of conducting business and in terms of having a healthy economic sphere.
We think that the status quo is is sufficient because it allows you to have certain differences between communities be accounted for.
You can still have legislation on small local issues that may be different from one town to the next, and that is totally reasonable.
You still have control over taxation for inherently local systems, things like local schools and things and things like local infrastructure, these types of projects that are unique to that community, we think are already covered by that community and legislated in large part by those communities.
And because of that, we think that the status quo allows for a sufficient level of local government, while not impeding things like principle laws across borders as well as business interests across towns.
For these reasons, we should not increase local government.