We should not legalize employment discrimination.
In this round we're going to respond to the arguments made by the government side while interweaving our responses with positive reasons for why employment discrimination should still be an illegal practice.
So the first argument that the government side makes is that current laws inhibit the free market, for example people hire certain candidates because of a fear of lack of diversity in hiring and a fear of lawsuits rather than hiring the most qualified, most effective candidate and that creates harms within the market, that creates less less efficient businesses.
We've three responses for why we think this is both untrue and an insufficient reason to remove these laws.
The first response is that we think there is no reason to believe that diverse candidates can't also be successful in their roles.
They still need to have the necessary qualifications in order to do their job and there's no reason to believe that two equally qualified candidates can't exist and there's no reason to believe that you you are incapable of finding a diverse higher that can't fulfill the role.
It is unlikely that is the case.
But our second response is that for years white men were and to a great degree still are given massive preference and structural privileges that allow them to accrue present wealth and social stock in our collective consciousness and what we mean by that is that there's this image of certain roles within our society things like judges or politicians that have a very white male perception in the public consciousness and we think that gives them more credence than they deserve during the hiring process and we think the state should correct for that injustice.
The third argument or the third response we would make is that employment discrimination isn't just removing quotas for public operations but rather it's saying we don't want you just because you're black or just because you're gay and we think that refusing to hire someone because of an immutable characteristic is fundamentally unjust and we think that it's a a massive problem that the government needs to address.
So the government side sort of responds to this but in their second argument they say look free businesses should be able to hire who they prefer.
That if I own a business and I just don't like a certain group of people, I can just choose not to hire them because it's my business.
But we think that free businesses profit off of and require our social systems in order to exist.
You can't have a business that's just yourself, you need to be part of the larger society.
They're they're inherently a public actor insofar as they only exist within the the public sphere even if they do happen to be public to be privately owned which means they still need to interact within the public discourse, they still need to behave in appropriate ways when interacting in public, it means that you still get immense benefits from the entire social order and therefore it's perfectly reasonable to legislate how you can behave when you're participating in that social order and we think that because businesses are an inherent part of our social systems, they should be subject to the same considerations and the same legal consequences that come along with other forms of hate and discrimination in public.
We think given that, the government absolutely should regulate the public sphere so that all people can participate it in it without fear of discrimination.
The government is responsible for representing and caring for not just those in power in our society but for all people in our society and given that employment discrimination allows for those that are already less empowered to become more disempowered and more disenfranchised, we think that just for the for the purpose of freedom, that is not a sufficient reason to create that discrimination and for these reasons, we should not legalize employment discrimination.