We should not further exploit wind turbines.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think that wind turbines are not the right direction to go.
But first, we think it's important to give context.
We think that what's most important in this round is to recognize that there is a trade-off for renewable funding, for actual investment in renewable sources.
In the status quo, it is just the case that there is limited investment opportunity for renewable energy and so we think that this isn't really a discussion between whether or not we should explain wind turbines and fossil fuels because we think the investment in fossil fuels is still going to be pretty steady and that many people don't want to invest in green technology.
The reason for that is that the price per kilowatt hour energy yield is still pretty low for most green technology and the tech just isn't at a place to succeed financially on a large scale and so as far as an investment opportunity, there's no real massive benefit to investing now in green technology.
There's other better investment opportunities that are going to give you a higher yield.
So someone that wants to invest in green technology is motivated for more than just financial reasons to do so.
We think the people that are interested in renewable broadly are limited and so we don't think that someone that would invest in wind turbines is someone that otherwise wouldn't invest in solar and we think it's a best use of investments if all of the funds are going to one basket.
The reason for this is that when you have a large amount of funding in one particular type of renewable energy, we think you're more likely to accelerate the growth of that one type of energy.
You're more likely to get higher efficiency yield for what you're putting in.
You're more likely to make the the energy the energy use more widespread.
You're more likely to get it adopted by more people.
We think that just having more upstart capital for one type of renewable energy is more likely to get the transition that we need to widespread energy use.
So we think that at the end of the day, this is fundamentally a comparative debate about renewables and we're going to say that we think solar is simply better than wind turbines.
Let's talk about why.
First, it is just simply a fact that there is more potential energy to be gained from solar energy that hits the earth and from solar radiation that comes to us than there is from all of the wind on the earth.
The potential energy if all the wind on earth was harvested at you know it's maximum efficiency, if we could purely dilute the energy that is in our atmosphere that's being caused by wind and turn it into energy production it just wouldn't match if we have the same capacity to gain solar power.
We think that at the end of the day, if you can scale up in a relatively similar level, solar is always going to have a higher amount of yield and it's always going to be easier to gain from.
It can also be used in vastly more locations.
Everywhere on earth the sun is going to rise at some point and certainly there's probably more sun in some areas than others but there are areas of the world where wind power and wind turbine simply aren't going to get you any sort of yield compared to what solar energy could do.
And finally, solar energy is just more developed at this point.
The price per kilowatt hour gain of solar power is something that has been going down and down every year.
It's becoming much more efficient to have solar power on homes, to have solar powered for large areas, for municipalities, and wind turbines while certainly useful in certain instances, simply aren't something that's gaining as much attention in investment in the status quo.
And so we think it's preferable that instead of further exploiting wind turbines we shift the money, we shift the resources and the scientific effort toward solar energy.
For these reasons, we should not further exploit wind turbines.