We should abolish the presidential pardon.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why the presidential pardon has to go.
The first is that this type of a pardon undermines the justice system.
In the in the system that we currently live in, in in a democracy that has courts and systems that are run by the people, for the people, a trial by jury, and a trial by a jury of your peers, we think that there are a number of steps that ensure that the trial that you receive is fair.
And we think that in order for the justice in order for the justice system to be maintained, in order for the belief in the justice system to be maintained, in order for people to think that we have a fair system, you need to have one that isn't biased.
You need to have one where everyone is playing by the same rules, where everyone has the same opportunities.
But the presidential pardon undermines that justice system.
It says that even though someone has gone through the court system, even though they've gone through the appeal system, even though they have been found on all counts to be guilty of the crime that they committed, one person in one position has the ability to wipe their slate clean when where, at the same time, thousands of people will remain incarcerated.
Thousands of people will remain in jail with no sort of system for getting out of that.
We think that this undermines the the faith in our justice system.
It sends a message that those in power truly are the ones that get to pick and choose who gets punished in america, who gets punished in our criminal justice system, and already reinforces the idea of mass inequality between those with and with not and without power in our current state.
And recognize that, historically, this pardon has been used in incredibly political and incredibly personal ways: for example, bill clinton pardoning his brother-in-law, for example, gerald ford pardoning richard nixon from any sort of liability after the watergate scandal.
These things are often done and historically done in ways that are incredibly personal.
They're not done in ways , you know, and of course there are exceptions to this.
There are instances in which someone was likely innocent, and has gone through the system, and was and gained remittance through the presidential pardon system but, for the most part, these are done for personal reasons, and it means that you need to have some sort of personal connection to the president or some way of of connecting with the president on a personal level in order to get this special treatment, in order to get this special benefit.
We think that that is incredibly unjust and is something that historically has been problematic and continues to be problematic to this day.
Finally, we think that alternative methods exist for restitution and having a case thrown out.
On top of the appeals process that already exists, we think it's perfectly fine to expand that appeals process to ensure that, at certain times, whether it's through a parole system or through other systems, you have your case reviewed, you have the opportunity to maintain your innocence and to get clemency for your crimes.
There are a number of different ways that people have been exonerated after the fact.
Vastly more people have been exonerated for crimes after they've been incarcerated than people have been than people have been released because of presidential pardons, so it's a more efficacious method for having a case thrown out, for being released from the criminal justice system that still works within the criminal justice system, that has an avenue that all people can access rather than this elitist avenue of going through a presidential pardon and having one person override a jury and our entire court system.
It ruins our checks and balances, it overrides justice, and it undermines any faith that people can have in our current system.
For these reasons, we should abolish the presidential pardon.