We should not encourage self-employment.
In this round, we're gonna make four arguments about why we think self-employment is something that for the vast majority of people is not a sustainable option.
So, let's be very upfront about this: self-employment often has a very high risk of failure.
If you're going to try and strike it out on your own, if you're going to have a new business that you want to sell, if you want to provide some sort of a service that allows you to be your own boss, to be self-employed, this also comes with the reality that the vast majority of new businesses fail.
It's incredibly hard to gain traction as a new business that isn't already entrenched in local culture.
It's incredibly difficult to provide a skill that, in the long term, will be something that is going to be sustainable, that's something that's going to keep people coming back over time in a way that can ensure long-term salary and not just some sort of sale in the immediate future that gives people some sort of benefit.
It also means that you're taking on an immense amount of risk in the fact that there's no sort of benefits that are being presented to you.
So not only are you in a system that is incredibly difficult to succeed in, but it also means that even if you have some sort of income coming in, you still have to cover costs, like your health care, that you wouldn't otherwise have to cost that you would have to that you would have to carry.
There's no sick time.
If you don't do work as someone that's self-employed, you're not getting a paycheck.
There's no sort of sabbatical you can go on as someone that's self-employed.
There's there's an immense amount of responsibility if you start employing other people.
You take on legal risks, you take on obligations to care for those other people, and that all asumes you have some sort of a successful business that doesn't immediately fall flat and leave you in a system in which you become destitute and can't afford to pay your bills.
It also means that you lead to more people needing public goods.
So if you have a higher rate of people that are being encouraged to go into some sort of self-employment that are starting their own businesses, you're going to have also a higher rate of people that's become unemployed, that no longer have a job because, statistically, you are just very likely to have more than fifty percent of new businesses fail.
Even businesses in the tech sector, like startups, have incredibly high failure rates.
And there are businesses such as restaurants, such as opening a convenience store, these are things that have dramatically higher rates of failure.
And jobs that are kind of in in new demand, things that allow you to do things like dog walking for a living, these are things that generally don't have very good pay, things that require you to have some sort of additional salary coming in, and things that aren't often sustainable in the long run which means that, overall, you're probably going to have more people on unemployment and more people that need goods like welfare, which only drains the state even further.
But finally, there's just a high level of jobs that exist already, good-paying jobs.
When you have more people in the marketplace for existing jobs and you have lower rates of unemployment, it means that you start driving up wages.
It means that you get things like more people being employed, and that's the situation we're in now.
We're not in a situation in which there aren't jobs readily available for people that want to get them.
If you have some sort of work experience or if you have a college or high school degree, it's very easy right now to get a job in in in the in this economy, in a prosperous economy.
And because of that, we think that if you're ever going to encourage self-employment, it would be at a time in which there aren't readily available jobs, in which there aren't vast economic opportunities that are safer and more sustainable.
And for these reasons, we should not encourage self-employment.