We should not fight the BDS movement.
The BDS movement is a movement that is persuaded and pushed by the by the acts of indecency and the atrocities committed against palestinians by the israeli state.
The BDS movement calls for all divestment in israeli businesses in the israeli state pulling out foreign aid all these types of things in order to put pressure on israel to stop its abuse of the palestinian people.
So first we're going to talk about why that palestinian abuse is so bad we're going to set the table for what it looks like and then we're going to talk about why it's necessary to have a movement like this and why it will be effective.
So let's just talk about some of the things that have happened to the palestinian people.
There've been unlawful killing and war crimes united committed against the palestinian people in an attempt to suppress their political will and their uprising.
The palestinian people essentially want to have their own state their own state they want to have the right to self governance and yes some of them call for taking israel back but this isn't about that this is about the fact that you can have your border walls you can shut the palestinians out of the israeli state but you can still allow them to have the ability of self governance a fundamental right that should be afforded to all people that israel has systematically denied and persecuted the palestinians over for their entire existence.
There are missiles that are indiscriminate in response to terror attacks in israeli cities that kill civilians in palestine and kill people that had nothing to do with these attacks that had nothing to do with the planning and killing of innocent people.
It only draws more blood and more anger out of the palestinian people and means that further attacks and further death is only more likely in the future and this is why a large reason why why the situation is so entrenched in the way it is.
It's because neither side wants to come to the negotiating table because decades of fighting have forced them so far apart and have made anything like reconciliation impossible and have made even some simple some simple compromise unpalatable.
The occupation again doesn't allow for self government something that we think is fundamentally unjust.
There's also a wall that is built around palestine a system of keeping goods from coming into palestine that makes the goods that do come in much more costly it means they're lower quality it means the equality of life in this area is being harmed economically not just in a human in a humanitarian way.
We think that our negotiations stalemate palestine is simply not possible enough not powerful enough to push israel to give it some sort of statehood, to push israel to give into some sort of right to governance.
We think this right to self governance is necessary.
We think that palestine should be a state and we think that they that the people in that area should be allowed to have some sort of control over their lives.
We've also think finally that this will be an effective movement.
It hurts israelis on all level from losing international business to losing political ties abroad it forces people to experience some harm for their action and consider if they're worth continuing those actions.
There's more political pressure we think from people to act when they're suffering and it means that if the palestinian people on their own cannot force negotiation the israeli people we think will be able to force that negotiation when israel's allies distance themselves it also creates more political pressure to negotiate especially given the large threats in the region like iran israel does not want to be abandoned.
And finally divestment has worked historically looka at apartheid in south africa a system that was in large parts brought down by divestment movements run by students and by the lack of funding that was going in to the apartheid regime.
We simply think that palestine has been persecuted for far too long and that palestinians have suffered and for these reasons we should not fight the BDS movement.