We should subsidize adoptions.
When we say we're going to subsidize adoptions, we would provide significant financial resources for parents that choose to adopt, not just during the adoption process we want to give an additional incentive for people to do this so we're going to give them additional funding and tax breaks following the adoption period while they still have the child.
Two big reasons, the first is that we think adoption is just good in principle.
There are many children, thousands of children in the world, who are up for adoption who will never be adopted, people that will go their entire lives without having parents or having a family or having some sort of stability.
Ultimately these children either become foster children or wards of the state, and it doesn't give them a stable environment to develop in.
They're either moving from foster home to foster home not being able to put roots down, form relationships, have role models in their lives to look up to to get advice from to have that type of caring and affection that a parent can.
And we don't and we think that these children deserve to have a home life with caring parents just like anyone else.
These children did nothing to warrant being orphan, these children did nothing to separate themselves morally or physically from those children that get to grow up in loving households with parents that are able to nurture them and want to care for them.
We do not need more people on the planet.
There are already seven billion of us and if everyone on this planet lived like americans lived, we simply wouldn't have enough resources to to allow all those people to survive.
We're already over the cap of people on the planet that fundamentally we really could support if we want everyone to have a high quality of living and we think it's just socially better to adopt given that there's in fact negative benefit to bringing a new being into the world because it puts us even further over the resource cap and the the population cap that our resources can support.
We think it's preferable to give caring and resources to those who already exist.
Recognize that it's just morally preferable to having a new child if you adopt.
The reason for this is that the new child does not exist until it's conceived and until that child is conceived, there's no obligation to beings who could be.
There's no sort of moral obligation that I have to the infinite many people that I could bring into the world if I chose to have a child but we do have an obligation to our fellow humans to correct for the suffering brought upon those humans by our own actions and additionally by the lottery of birth that doomed people to a lower level of living than they otherwise could have had if they were able to grow up in a stable family.
Secondly, we think that this is just a good use of subsidy.
Given that subsidies are being are use of public taxpayer money we think that they need to go to some sort of public good and we think that this serves that process.
In the status quo adoption is incredibly difficult.
The process can take a very long time, even in some cases over a year.
It's also incredibly costly not only to fly out to foster not only to to fly out to orphanages and to other places in which children are being fostered.
It's also a lot of money to bring those children back, to make sure they get adequate medical care, to actually go through the legal process of adopting and there's also a lot of social pressure on people to have a child of one's own because that is how we've grown up in our society is that it's considered a normal part of life that you grow up you get married and with your partner you have a child that's the combination of the two of you.
We don't think there's any sort of preference or moral that betterment of having a child of your own than there is to taking care of a child that already exists.
We think this subsidy creates a clear social good in the fact that it improves the lives of those that are in oftentimes the least well off and it's a subsidy that in theory is accessible to anyone that wanted to adopt.
For these reasons, we should subsidize adoption.