We should increase government regulation.
So we're going to talk about certain sectors that we think government regulation increased government regulation be beneficial for but first let's talk about why we don't think regulation is necessarily bad.
We don't think that regulation should be the dirty word that it is in the status quo.
The state exists first and foremost to protect its citizens but this is a fairly vague term.
We think that economic productivity is not the end all and be all of a government's job but rather that even if your people may be slightly worse off economically, which is often the argument for regulation that it harms the free market and it harms the growth of the economy, even if that's the case, we think that this can be outweighed by improving quality of life for the median citizen.
In general, we think it's you we like we need more regulation given our status quo especially in the following fields.
First, let's look at business regulation.
In the status quo there's more inequality than anytime in the past century.
The division between those that have and those that have not is growing and increasing even though our productivity is increasing, our economic output is increasing, all of these types of economic measurements of overall economic health are improving but median income for the average american has stagnated for the last twenty years.
We think that this is objectively unfair.
That the improvements in the games in the economy are the are the impact of all working people, not just the executives that owned the businesses and therefore, we think we need better regulation.
First, to improve worker protections.
To do things like insuring that a a mother is able to take time off of work in order to care for a newborn child.
Doing things like making sure that people are given adequate vacation time because work should not be the only thing that people are able to do with their lives and certainly that we get better worker compensation.
A minimum wage in the united states of seven dollars and twenty five cents an hour is a poverty wage.
It is not enough to survive in the united states and across the board we think that higher wages are necessary and the only way to get that is through government regulation.
Secondarily, let's talk about banking regulation.
Let's look at the past few years and the past decade or so and what has happened.
We've had in intense market crash brought about by predatory loaning by the banking sector as well as just bad lending, of packaging together assets and putting them out there on the market to be sold even though those assets were bad.
Even though the bank and the economic powers that be knew that those were troubled assets and they were going to cause a negative outcome.
We think that additionally, the combination of savings and investment banks is something that is incredibly detrimental to the average person.
All of this is bad and none of this has been fixed since the economic crash in two thousand and seven.
None of this has been remedied.
None of the factors that led to the crash have been solved and we need government regulation to do those things.
Finally environmental regulation.
Global warming is most likely the largest threat that humanity faces in its in the present day.
If we're going to survive for the next one hundred years as a species we need to fight global warming but companies clearly aren't changing on their own.
We need strict government regulation to enforce a media change because we don't need gradual change across all sectors, but we need immediate change everywhere in order to ensure that our lives and our children's lives are able to exist in peace and without the threat of constant storms, of lack of food and water, and of increasing and rising sea levels.
For these reasons, we should increase government regulation.