We should not abandon democracy.
In this round we're going to make two broad arguments about why even though democracies may be flawed they are the best and only system of just government and that because of this we should continue to implement it.
First we're gonna talk about why you have a need for self governance in order for the state to be just and democracy provides that and secondly we're going to just talk about the outcomes that democracies have been shown to produce.
So first on the just state.
The state is a coercive apparatus it has the monopoly on the legitimate use of force in any defined geographic area and as such it has a tremendous capacity for both tyranny and good.
But tyranny and good are not absolute concepts.
The moral designations that we place on things we place through the lens of our social environment and the contexts of our society.
This means that intrinsically within the state the people are that which define what is good and what is tyrannical.
In order to determine what the good is that state should pursue, a definition of the good needs to be derived by the body politic.
It is impossible for the state to do good work if the state is just making assumptions about what the people want based on a tyrannical overlord or a dictator or some sort of oligarchy or some sort of theocracy any sort of other system of government that doesn't have the input of all people in decision making.
Every person's idea of good is slightly different but by appealing to the community as a whole through democracy a standard emerges.
When you see when you vote on certain things within a system you get an understanding of what is good and what is bad generally based on how people vote and while some may disagree you get on the whole a firmer understanding of what these terms mean.
Democracy is necessary in order to create systems in which the good is both defined but also pursued when we elect officials who advocate for the good.
Without having this process of defining the good and of selecting those that will pursue the good, a check on those through elections that keeps them honest in pursuing the good that allows the people to choose who will be leading them and who will be representing their idea of what is good without these features the state becomes fundamentally unjust and therefore we think democracy is essential to a just state.
Secondly we're gonna talk about why democracy is just comparatively good for outcomes of citizends and so even if you don't care about the principle behind democracy we think in practice democracy just performs much better than stage with other systems of government.
Let's look at communist states like cuba which have an incredibly poor economy in the status quo or maybe let's look at the soviet union which disbanded after years of tyrannical rule by an oppressive party or look at states like china.
China's become not communist but a capitalist authoritarian state which yes has allowed some citizens to flourish but has left many people behind and is in some sort of a process of democratization itself at least compared to the past.
Democracies also host populations with a higher standard of living.
Overall if you look at the states that have the best standard of living they are all democracies democratic states because democracy isn't just voting it's a system of rights that allow you free expression, it's a system of rights that allow you to pursue the ends that you wish to have, it's the right to speak the mind that you have and to think freely.
These are things that fundamentally make people happy and make them feel more fulfilled.
Democracies finally on average have much lower levels of human rights abuses and higher levels of technological development and freedom of exploration and scientific discovery.
All these things are benefits that on the aggregate democracy creates for its citizens creating a higher quality of life and principally democracy is necessary for the just state.
For these reasons we should not abandon democracy.