Community service should be mandatory.
So we think that community service should be mandated for all people to do a certain number of hours every year.
We think that a reasonable number of hours would be something like fifty to a hundred hours of community service every year for every individual.
Community service can be anything from working in a local food pantry, to cleaning up debris on roads and public places, unification projects to volunteering with other members of the community and community organizations.
So that being said, let's talk about why.
First we think that every person owes a debt to their community.
Each person is reliant on their surrounding community for immense amounts of their sustenance but also for who they are.
Communities form your preferences as an individual via your environment and your learning situation.
You do not just have the identity you have out of the blue but because the community you were born into, whether you like that community or not, formed your beliefs in certain ways that made you who you are and the person that you value today.
Communities provide you with education, protection, and the social connections that are necessary for a high quality of living that allow you to live your life in a way that can be meaningful to you.
Because of this we think that each person owes a debt to their community for the labor that's been put into their own creation as an individual.
In the status quo, very few people actually give back to their community in more ways than just an annual donation or one day of volunteering on christmas or thanksgiving but there's so much else that needs to be done and so many people that are currently left behind within our communities that are invisible to us.
We think that obligations can be enforced by the government.
We do so all the time in the in the area contract law and we think the government should be able to enforce this implicit contract that exists between individuals and between their communities.
When you accept the goods that communities produce, when you choose to live in a community and be part of that community, we think that you also choose to accept these obligations.
You take these obligations on just as a nature of who you are and of your existence.
Because of this we think the government absolutely should enforce this type of community service and that this type of community service needs to be mandatory.
So secondly, let's just talk about what those good outcomes are.
We think that first you get better community service when you have more people that are willing to volunteer.
We think that there are more things that can be done when you as a say a community organization are trying to beautify one area of your city or you're trying to help one certain group in your community that's struggling.
There's only so much that you can do as a small group of people even if those people are super dedicated to trying to help their cause.
But when you simply have more labor and more bodies it means that you can do more.
There are more tasks that you can accomplish.
It also means that you have more specialized knowledge being drawn in from other people in the community which means that you can have more innovative solutions or you can bring light to new things that need to be solved, new problems that need to be addressed.
It takes those types of problem solving ideas out of the political realm that is currently incredibly hostile, and puts them into a community realm an idea where people are just trying to work together to make their lives better.
People feel deeper connections to their communities when they serve that can you and we think when in the long run after this has been mandated, you create an environment where people serve out of a desire to help their community rather than just because they're forced to.
This creates a cycle and we incredibly strong long term impacts.
We think that when no one is left behind, when you actually have community service that is robust and can help all members of the community, we think you improves lives of people that are currently marginalized, that will that go on themselves to improve the community.
It's a powerful cycle of communal growth and renewal.
We think that you owe this to your community based on the fact that you are who you are today and you've been given so much from the community that you were born into that you chose to be a part of.
For these reasons, community service should be mandatory.