We should ban chemical weapons or, rather, we should continue the ban on chemical weapons that currently exists at the international level.
So three main reasons why we think it's important to maintain the ban on chemical weapons: the first is that chemical weapons are distinct in kind from other weapons in the fact that they are are a very cruel weapon of war.
Chemical weapons are not just tools to wipe out an enemy on the battlefield, it's a way to make that enemy suffer.
It's a way to truly cause pain in one's final moments of life, to cause them if it's not deadly, possibly long-term health effects from those chemical weapons.
And these are things that while we recognize that war in and of itself is not some sort of lovely, peaceful thing, it's not this thing that we would applaud, like death by machine gun, death by some sort of conventional weapon is not something that we are okay with, but compare that to death by something like anthrax or death by other sorts of chemical weapons, something that is gruesome, something that's long, something that can oftentimes take days, it's simply a worse way to die than through conventional weapons.
And we think that while we're talking in terms of death one way or the other, we think if we can minimize the suffering that comes from war, where there's already so much suffering in place, that that's something that we should generally try to do.
The second thing is that compared to conventional weapons, chemical weapons are often indiscriminate in that they can spread in a variety of different ways.
They can get out beyond the scope in which they were intended to be used.
They're something that is easy to transport on a large scale, and it's something, for example, anthrax: if anthrax is exposed to an actor who then is able to take that and deliver it to other areas, they can cause immensely more damage than if they were to, for example, come across a gun.
While that gun can certainly do a heck of a lot of damage, it's not going to cause the same sort of widespread harm that getting a hold of a chemical weapon could.
And in the same way, deploying a chemical weapon, even by a state actor, is something that is indiscriminate.
It's hard to target a single actor if you're bombing them with a chemical weapon, whereas if you use conventional weapons of war, if you use guns, if you use even drone strikes are less indiscriminate than chemical weapons are, and we would prefer those systems because it means you probably, on balance, have fewer civilian casualties, though we are well aware that civilian casualties are likely to accrue on either side, it means that you've less of a spread outside of the radius of damage that you are trying to do, and it's just easier to control.
Finally, chemical weapons simply violate international norms.
International norms on war is something that were hard fought for.
It's something that after many, many violent cruelties on the battlefield, the cruel treatments of civilians in in the way of battle, the cruel treatment of prisoners of war, it's something that was hard fought to be gained.
And while it is certainly violated in some instances, when you have progress in international norms in regard to warfare, we think that rolling that progress back is incredibly problematic.
These bans are already in place for a reason.
It's because, on a visceral level, we recognize that chemical weapons are distinct in kind from conventional weapons and that while war's not pretty, it doesn't need to be cruel as well.
And we think that the existing international norms are beneficial and that lifting these bans would only make war even worse than it currently is in the status quo.
For these reasons, we should ban chemical weapons.