Blood donation should be mandatory.
So, we want to start by giving an overview of how we think that mandatory blood donation should be implemented.
Obviously, we think it's fair that we can have exemptions for strongly held religious beliefs, or for people that have health risks were they to be put in danger by giving blood, or if they have some sort of disease that could make their blood dangerous to others were they to give.
But we think for the vast majority of people over the age of age eighteen or older that they should be required to give blood once a year and that not meeting that standard would make them subject to some sort of a fine.
So we think the overall principle that we want to work on is that the state should exist to maximize its citizens' well-being.
We think that that is a relatively uncontroversial position to take and that when you look at it from an objective standpoint, mandatory blood donation does much more to help its citizens' well-being than it does to harm.
So, first, it's important to recognize that blood donation itself has very little impact on the donor.
Maybe they might be afraid of needles, maybe they might become lightheaded from giving blood, maybe they can't do any sort of strenuous activity for twenty four hours afterwards, but that impact, all of those impacts are very temporary.
They're short-term impacts that most people don't need to worry about.
And for the vast majority of people, if you give blood and you have a hearty meal afterwards, you can go back to doing your regular activity within an hour or so.
So, blood donation itself is a very low is a very low impact on those that give blood.
It's a very small impact.
But we think that everyone benefits from having a system like this.
It ensures that if you ever get hurt, if you're ever in an accident and you ever need a blood transfusion, that that blood is available.
Recognize that in the status quo, many people are denied the access to blood transfusions or they die because those transfusions couldn't happen quickly enough, especially after disasters occur.
But if we have a system in which blood donation is mandatory, in which you have massive reserves and people are forced to do this for on each and every year, we think it's much more likely that that never occurs, that transfusions are always available.
We think that a state has an obligation to protect its citizens, that when people consent into the state, when they opt-in to the state, they do so with the understanding that the state will have their best interests in mind and will do everything to protect them.
And we think that this is a proactive step to do just that.
By giving blood, in addition, everyone earns the right to take from the general public pool of donations.
There's a lot of people right now that are able to get by without giving blood because they simply because there's a large free rider problem, because you won't be denied a transfusion if you haven't given blood.
But this means that many of those who do give blood are on the losing end of this free rider on this free rider problem.
And so if you have mandatory blood donation, it makes it so that everyone has earned the right.
Everyone should be able to get those transfusions whereas in the status quo, there are many people that do nothing to earn that besides being a citizen of the state.
And the status quo has a lack of donations.
There are people today who died because they can't get a transfusion quickly enough because a donor is not readily available and supplies of blood are not high enough.
We think that having a yearly requirement means that people tend to give over the course of the whole year at sporadic times so you don't just have influxes during situations in which there are disasters, which often lead to a surplus of donations, but rather you get donations spaced out much more evenly, and you have transfusions available for all people year round.
For these reasons, blood donation should be mandatory.