We should not support a phaseout of lightweight plastic bags.
In this round, we're going to make four arguments as to why we think it is unnecessary to phase out lightweight plastic bags.
The first argument we want to make, though, is despite all the vitriol that exists about plastic bags, despite the fact that this debate occurs on a daily basis for policymakers and for environmental activists, it's important to recognize that for the vast majority of people, lightweight plastic bags are simply a convenience.
It means that you don't have to spend money on a reusable bag.
It means that you don't have to remember that bag every single time you go to the grocery store.
It means that when you get that plastic bag, you can then reuse it for things like garbage bags or reusing it in your day-to-day life.
These are ways in which plastic bags are incredibly convenient for individuals, and we think that while these things may be somewhat ethereal, and while it's certainly the case that there are alternatives that exist to plastic bags that can serve many of those purposes, that convenience shouldn't be underestimated.
And the impact on people's lives, especially when it's multiplied upon all the people that take advantage of this convenience, does exist.
It's also important to recognize that while people say that lightweight plastic bags are a danger to our environment, the issue is not that recycling does not exist.
The the issue is not that plastic bags can't be recycled.
Just like plastic bottles can be recycled, plastic bags can, too, be recycled, but the issue that exists is that they too often end up in landfills.
So there's ways to ensure that plastic bags are used appropriately.
You can increase incentives to recycle.
You can increase the harm you can increase the you can increase the punishment if someone does dispose of plastic bags in an environmentally harmful way.
There are many ways to legislate, without phasing out lightweight plastic bags, the harms that they accrue.
Additionally, we think that when you're thinking of the overall harms of plastics, the harm of producing plastics in our current system, the harm that comes from plastic waste, it's important to recognize that lightweight plastic bags are just a very small part of that harm.
Even if we were to phase out lightweight plastic bags altogether, you'd still have a system in which you'd still have a system in which tons and tons of plastic would be produced every single day, in which you're still having an immense amount of waste and costs that's associated with that, and we think that it's not worth getting rid of this one facet of plastics when you still have all of the harms of a lack of recycling and when reducing those harms would make this harm less impactful as well.
So if you're going to solve the plastic issue overall, then you're providing a solution for plastic bags as well, making it unnecessary to phase them out.
And finally, we think that the issue of plastic bags, overall, is exaggerated.
There's a famous video of oprah winfrey saying she's seen this mound of plastic in the ocean that is the size of the state of texas, but when you actually look at the environmental studies of the amount of plastic that is put into the environment, the amount of pollution that we create, it's nowhere year near the level that the public really believes it to be.
And I'm not saying that plastic pollution is not harmful.
I'm not saying that these types of issues shouldn't be addressed and shouldn't be solved, but when you're talking about the scale of the issue, and you're using the scale of the issue as an argument for removing this convenience that people have and for taking, essentially, the easy way out of of banning plastic bags, rather than addressing the real issue with plastics, then we think that you're creating a harm by trying to take this action.
This is a short-sighted solution that doesn't reduce harm nearly as much as people believe.
It's something that removes a convenience from everyone's day-to-day life, and it means that we have less political will for solving the problem of recycling plastics and reducing plastic pollution overall, and we're kicking that can down the road, which is something we should we should no longer be doing, as a society, when it comes to our environmental problems.
For these reasons, we should we should not support a phaseout of lightweight plastic bags.