We should fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think that nuclear weapons are both unnecessary in our current world and incredibly dangerous to the survival of our species.
So, first, we would say that nuclear weapons are an essentially pointless weapon.
So let's break down that argument.
We think that a weapon is something that is ultimately supposed to be used for self-defense.
It's something that prevents other people from inhibiting your ability to live your life in the way that you see fit.
It's a way of protection.
It's a way of deterrence.
But the problem with nuclear weapons as a weapon, in this sense, is that there's no self-defense that is generated from these nuclear weapons, because there's no way to use these nuclear weapons in a way that won't invoke an attack against you that ultimately harms yourself.
We think that this is just clear by the state of the world as it is today.
There are international experts, there are people in the international sphere in public policy that fear that, in certain regions, hot spots could erupt that could decimate the world.
And it's not just if these regions, such as the india-pakistan border, it's not just if these two countries decide to have a nuclear war against each other that they're only harming themselves, but they harm the entire world.
If you launch hundreds of nuclear weapons back and forth across a border, you create nuclear fallout that affects the entire region and, in fact, the entire world.
It's a pointless weapon in the sense that it doesn't do anything to meaningfully deter action, because it doesn't deter conventional warfare, it only deters additional nuclear weapons.
So it's a it's a weapon that deters itself and, essentially, you could create the same effect of deterrence by just abolishing all nuclear weapons.
And the other issue one of the other issues, though, and our second point, is that these weapons are incredibly dangerous, because they can because one accident can lead to this sort of nuclear fallout globally.
If one person makes a mistake, if one nuclear weapon is launched accidentally, there's no time, there's there's no reaction that's going to stop nuclear weapons from being fired in response.
If the united states were to accidentally launch a nuclear weapon at russia or at china, we don't think that russia or china would just allow that nuclear weapon to decimate millions of people and damage its population and cause real destruction in its country without some sort of repercussions, and we think that that is almost certainly going to escalate in the in a sense of mutually assured destruction, which is, again, the premise of this weapon.
The premise is that it is such a powerful weapon, it is such a dangerous weapon that it can deter other people from using that weapon against you.
But at the end of the day, if that is the point of it, to deter the weapon from being used on other people, we would just have we would prefer a system of abolition, especially because of our third argument which is that in many places, especially the united states, the infrastructure surrounding nuclear weapons is incredibly outdated.
The infrastructure that we use in the united states in our nuclear weapons facilities is the same infrastructure that we had during the cold war era in the nineteen fifties.
You have people using floppy disks and people using computers that were developed in the nineteen fifties.
These are things that are not incredibly sophisticated, and they're prone to glitches.
In fact, there are a number of times in recent US history in which nuclear weapons were almost accidentally used, in which in and not even used against foreign nations, where these things are being transported and there is an accident that could have easily caused the nuclear weapon to explode.
And then, again, if a nuclear weapon were to go off in the united states, the united states would likely have to find some foreign actor to blame for that incident and, again, cause this nuclear war that would be so destructive to the public.
The infrastructure is outdated, the purpose of the weapon is nonexistent, and for these reasons, we should fight for the abolition of nuclear weapons.