We should ban corporal punishment.
In this round we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think all forms of corporal punishment should be banned in the home and why you should face criminal penalties and face losing your children if you ever use corporal punishment.
The first and main argument is that corporal punishment is simply abuse.
That in all other spheres of life, and even in this sphere in many instances, any sort of physical harm of another person that they haven't consented into, so in in out in ways outside of things like sport for example, in all other walks of life, assault is abuse and this type of abuse is punished in a criminal manner.
Children in these instances cannot defend themselves much like victims of assault in the higher legal system.
Children have no means of defending themselves against a harm that a that a parent figure is inflicting on them not only because they are much you know smaller in most cases than those parents but because their their caregiver, the person that controls their ability to live, their ability to be fed, to have a roof over their heads, the ability to get their basic sustenance, and the figure that they are supposed to trust in the world, as someone that's supposed to guide them and love them, that person attacking you, that person physically harming you in a way to say that you are lesser, that you've done something wrong, treating you like an animal more so that a person, treating you in a way that we wouldn't treat most pets, doing these types of things belittles you on a mental level in addition to a physical level.
It makes it even more difficult to lash back.
Even if you could protect yourselves, if you had you know if you were if you were large enough or old enough or physically capable enough to protect yourself, you're still mentally you're still mentally harmed by this action and it means that you're likely unable to actually defend yourself in a meaningful way and that mental harm scars that child in the long run and harms them emotionally in the long run.
So it's not just physical abuse by a parent but it's mental abuse, it's belittling, it's something that leaves deep scars on a child's psyche and has shown to pass that behavior on to future generations which we'll get to in a second.
All of this we think is satisfactory evidence to say that people that do these things to their child even if it's just smacking a child on the wrist in occasion, even if it's just doing light corporal punishment, it still carries that type of effect on the child and we see no reason why just because someone is a parent of someone else that assault shouldn't be punished in a meaningful way which means we must ban all forms of corporal punishment in the home.
But secondarily, corporal punishment as a mechanism for teaching good behavior in the long run has been shown to be ineffective.
Studies have come out about child psychology in child development that show rewarding good acts, actually giving a child some sort of reward or telling them that they had done well making them feel good when they do things that are worthy of praise, even small things teaches behavior in a much more effective way than harming of child, than doing something negative to them in the long run and while you know punishing someone, corporal punishment be effective in stopping someone for a short period of time, it doesn't teach the actual behavior that then allows them to go on and be a stable member of society.
In fact it teaches them resentment.
It makes them more angry and it makes them more likely to lash out.
When they feel like the parental figure in their life doesn't care for them, when they feel like the parental figure in the life is out to get them they're more likely to lash out especially when you go to being a teenager, when you already have many emotional and physical developments that are occurring that make you more likely to lash out anyway and be resentful and finally, this does pass this behavior on to future generations.
If you received corporal punishment as a child you are more likely to view it to view it as something that's acceptable to do to your children and if you hadn't then you're more likely to view it as something that isn't acceptable.
It passes that abuse on down the line and doesn't just hurt people in that status quo but hurts future generations.
For these reasons, we should ban corporal punishment in the home.