The freedom of speech is not absolute.
So to clarify, when you say that a right is absolute, or freedom is absolute, we would say that that means that there's no instance in which that right can be restricted.
So, you can't repeal the ability for people to have free speech, to say that speech, and we think, in the instance of freedom of speech, it's not simply sufficient to say that, people can say things in the privacy of their own home, but rather freedom of speech, in a robust sense, would require the freedom to speak in a certain way, or to say certain things in public, and then absolute freedom of speech will require an absolute freedom to say whatever you want in public.
Okay, so first, we're going to talk about the nature of rights themselves, and secondly we're going to talk about why, based on that, this right cannot be absolute.
We would say that, rights only matter insofar as they are utile.
So, while people would say that utility is distinct from rights, we would say that, if you ask why a right is important, if you question that for the basis of any right, it essentially boils down, not to the ability for people to have these rights, but the ability for people to gain things from these rights.
The freedom of speech isn't important, if people aren't able to gain anything from it.
So, we think that utility is directly linked to the ability for rights to be meaningful, and furthermore, we don't think that rights arise from nature.
So, we don't think that I am naturally given with a right to freely speak whatever I want, or any other type of right.
Rights only can be enforced within a social structure, and they're clearly created within that social structure as well, whether that comes, and how we construct our constitutions, or our legal systems, or what we allow generally within our social systems.
Given that this is the case, we think that speech has external ramifications, that should be checked, even if this means having a high bar.
So, when we say that the freedom of speech is not absolute, this doesn't mean that we don't think that there should be a high bar for checking speech, or that political desires to check on speech are probably not justifications, that are reasonable, to actually restrict speech, because someone is speaking against you politically, but we would say that, there are instances in which the speech has negative external harms, and have no clear gains as far as utility.
Okay, this is also important, because even if you do restrict the freedoms of speech, it doesn't restrict the ability to say things, like in your private life, it doesn't restrict the ability for people to critically think about things, so even if you're restricting someone's ability to stand up on a podium and spew what they want to spew, this doesn't necessarily mean that you're restricting their personhood in a meaningful way.
So, this isn't even a lower bar that you we think you need to hit.
Okay, two examples of why we should restrict speech, the first is hate speech.
We think in instances of hate speech, the speech only exists to create terror, and in a group, often a minority, or otherwise depressed group, and that when this happens, there's no clear gain, and no utility to society, because it only exists to marginalize that group, and, in a sense, to restrict their freedom of speech.
When people do not feel comfortable with in their environment, when people are exposed to hate speech, that marginalizes those groups even further, and discredits their ideas, and discredits their ability to participate in our political and social discourse.
We think that, when you marginalize the voices of others through your own speech, and that given that the speech of something, even if it's repugnant, it something that you can hold in your mind without speaking it, and therefore you can internalize the benefits of your belief, however you choose to do so, given that you marginalize other people's freedom of speech by doing this, we think that you should check it, in this instance, to maximize the freedom of others.
Another instance is in lies and asymmetry of information.
So for example, an absolute freedom of speech would allow an advertiser to go out, and lie blatantly about an object, because their lying is a form of their speech, and you could say a form of their expression, or their opinion, and they're, if an absolute freedom of speech exists, are totally in their right to do this type of thing, to lie blatantly.
We simply think that, that's not fair, we think the government and our social structures exist to correct for asymmetries of information, because the average person simply doesn't have the ability to be informed, in robust way, about a round list of topics, in the same way that a government is capable of doing, and that we have a government in order to gather this information, and to make informed decisions for us, when we don't have the information necessary.
So given that, these types of asymmetry of information could be easily exploited, in economic or in economic ways or otherwise, that in these instances, it's crucial that you check the freedom of speech, the freedom of speech, in the sense to be able to lie.
So clearly, even if there are there are many more instances, in which this may be appropriate to restrict freedom of speech, given that we can identify two, that is enough to show that the freedom of speech is not absolute.