We should support a phaseout of lightweight plastic bags.
So, let's be clear: the bags that we're talking about are the bags that we all know, when we go to the grocery store, when we go to a supermarket, when we go out and about to the mall and we buy something, you get those plastic bags that are relatively that are lightweight, that don't have long shelf lives, and that you generally just use for throwing out garbage on a weekly basis.
So, why is it important to get get rid of these lightweight plastic bags?
So, firstly, it's important to recognize the problem that they cause, because plastic bags are not biodegradable.
Plastics do not compose for a very long period of time and, like I said, these plastic bags are largely just ended up being used for throwing trash out, which means that you have tons and tons of plastic pouring into landfills or being thrown onto the streets, because no one needs the plastic bag for their soda that they bought at the seven eleven, and it means that more and more pollution is going out there.
And this pollution has dramatic harms on our environment.
It means that our water is less clean.
It means that animals are being harmed by these things, which hurts the biodiversity of the spheres that we live in, and it leads to a problem of increased pollution which continually drives continually drives our harms in our environment.
And also, it takes a lot of of fossil fuels to create these plastic bags.
The production of these plastic bags in and of itself increases the amount of pollutants that are going into the air, and because they're not reusable in a meaningful sense, because the average the lightweight plastic bag that you get from the store maybe has a couple of uses before it starts to tear and you have to throw it out anyway, this is a product that is constantly being that constantly needs to be reproduced, which means that every every time that you have to put more fossil fuels into the production process, this isn't a a one-time process, this is a process that's repeating over and over again in people's daily lives.
And they're not very versatile, these bags.
You can't use them for anything particularly heavy because they're not very reusable.
You can't use them , you know, as like a backpacker.
You can't use them as something that you would have in your everyday life.
It's something that is likely just going to be used for either throwing trash out, or being used for small tasks, or thrown in a closet somewhere never to be used again.
And the issue with this is that maybe this would be acceptable if lightweight plastic bags were the only option, but easy alternatives exist and are, in fact, already produced to a fairly high level.
There's a few things that are being done right now.
For example, in most grocery stores, you can buy a a hemp bag or you can buy a bag that was made to be reused.
You can buy a regular grocery bag that you can just take to the store with you on a regular basis.
It's this is a a significant improvement over lightweight plastic bags because even if there is some sort of harm in the production process, you don't have the pollution of those bags being littered in landfills and across across wilderness and harming our environment, but you also don't have the increase, the repetitive production of fossil fuels.
And these and these are relatively cheap things to buy.
If I go to my local grocery store, I can buy one of these for a couple of bucks.
And, yes, this may be a small a small issue for people in their daily lives.
Once you buy this thing, if you buy two or three or four, you're set for probably a number of years before you need to buy a replacement, because they're made to be reusable.
They're made to carry heavier weight.
You can use them in your day-to-day life.
You can use them to carry things around that aren't just lightweight groceries, because they're able to be because they're more durable.
And this means that you have a product that is relatively cheap, that's something that everyone can buy.
It's something that doesn't create as much pollution, and it doesn't create as much waste in the production process, and it's easy to distribute because these these stores already are producing these things.
They're already available for people.
They're already encouraging for people to use these things, and it's just a matter of phasing out the plastic bags and shifting more people to these reusable bags that they can purchase at most any store.
For these reasons, we should support a phaseout of lightweight plastic bags.