We should ban live exports.
So, in this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think live exports should not be allowed.
The first argument we want to make is that we believe that animals should have rights.
So let's lay that argument out first, because it's important to set up the rest of the debate.
We think that rights are not something that are divined from some sort of universal being.
They're not divined from something that is coming out of nature.
We think that, rather, rights, at least in practice, are something that are constructed socially, something that are constructed by human societies.
And we think that in order for rights to be meaningful, in order for rights to bind individuals, they can't be biased.
They have to be logical and they have to be objective.
So, when we talk about rights that we construct, we think that all rights are constructed with a simple basis, which is that rights exist to maximize pleasure and to minimize pain.
Every right that we construct is done in accordance with those maxims, with those principles, and we do so because we think that is an important that what we deign as rights are important are especially important for ensuring a quality of life with minimal pain and maximal pleasure.
And that's why we do things like give rights to to freedom of speech, give rights to to to a fair trial, these types of things that allow people to have a high quality of life, things that we think are essential.
And most importantly, above all of those things, is a right to bodily autonomy and a right to life.
But we think that if the reasoning that we're giving rights is to maximize pleasure and minimize pain, then ultimately we don't give rights based on our humanity.
It's our humanity is not something that derives pain and pleasure.
It's our biology.
It's our existence, our life.
But looking at animals, animals are equally capable of feeling pain and feeling pleasure.
And we think that to divide animals out, to say that animals don't deserve any rights at all, especially the right to life, the right to bodily autonomy, the right not to feel immense pain, is to create some sort of subjective preference for humans that undermines the entire rights system.
Because if you can introduce subjective preferences at any turn, at any point, then it means that humans also are not are not able to ensure that their rights will be protected.
And let's make this clear: live export is cruel.
A number of animal rights groups in the past have shown that animals that go through the live export process ultimately end up being injured along the way, they're confined in very small spaces with a lack of food, a lack of adequate breathing, a lack of adequate air, a lack of adequate life.
It's a torturous process only to go to a slaughterhouse in a different state.
And frozen storage, as it currently exists, the technology for it, is way more effective than it has ever been in the past, which means that live export is largely unnecessary because you can slaughter animals in the in the country that they're being shipped from, put them in a freezing a a freezer that is of high quality, ship them across the ocean, and that food will still be relatively fresh and of fairly high quality, even though it was slaughtered halfway across the world and put in frozen containment.
Because freezing the meat doesn't degrade the quality of it, but what it does is that it means that animals before they're slaughter don't have to go through this torturous process that violates the very basic rights not to be tortured, not to feel immense pain, not to suffer.
And we think that in order for our rights systems to have any sort of fundamental protection, any sort of objective standpoint, we think it's important that animals be given these bare minimum rights.
For these reasons, we should ban live exports.