Open primaries in the united states are advantageous.
Generally, when we're talking about open primaries, we're talking about systems or states in which people may choose no matter their political affiliation which of the two primaries whether it be the republican or democratic primary that they're going to participate in which one they're going to vote in.
Normally you're not able to vote in both elections so you do have to make a choice, but your voter registration doesn't dictate that choice for you prior to knowing what those candidates are.
So that's the main distinction between closed and open primaries in the status quo.
We're going to say that these are advantageous especially in a comparative sense to closed primaries.
So firstly, we think that open primaries are more democratic.
The reality of the american political system is that the only possible outcome in most elections whether they be federal, state, or local level, is between the two party candidates.
Because of the entrenched system the entrenched party system that exists in our country, no matter which candidate is nominated from both party those are the two potential outcomes that someone could have to deal with.
Because these outcomes impact every individual and because for existence for instance, in certain areas republican leanings are much stronger than democratic leanings and vice versa, we think that given that there are areas that are so disproportionately skewed to one side, especially in those areas but also generally, people should have the ability to choose even amongst the ideology that they disagree with because for example, in this past election many people didn't approve of donald trump and many democratic supporters had they had the opportunity to vote in republican primaries likely would have chosen a more moderate option that they could have gone with, and they may have led to that having a better president or better a more preferable president in the status quo than what they achieved because they didn't have the chance to voice their opinion at that stage.
We think that's harmful to democracy.
We think that all people should have a say in who is going to govern them, and closed primaries only exclude the ability for that to occur.
Secondly, we think there are numerous pragmatic benefits that occur from open primaries both for the society and for the parties.
So firstly, we think that party moderation is much more likely to happen.
The reason for this is that when you don't have an echo chamber of your own of your own party determining who the nominee is going to be, but you allow for independent opposition views to have a say in who that person is going to be, we think that on balance this person is going to be more moderate.
One, because their policies have to attract a wider base of people and two, because the people that vote are going to tend to vote to one extreme if they're not all part of the same group.
Firstly, we think that this means that the candidates you get are going to be more moderate and thus more representative of what the average american believes and two, we think these people are going to be more electable because from they shift from the primary phase to the general election phase, they're already going to have the approval or at least the comparative approval of other people from people from independent in other parties.
The reason that this is good is obviously good for society when you have more agreement, more moderation.
We think this leads to less gridlock in congress and in state houses across the country and secondly, we think this is good for parties because it makes their candidates more competitive moving forward.
So we think that this is not only good for society but also the parties itself.
It also signals that these divides that we face in the status quo are not insurmountable.
It sends the message that people are able to engage and likely people are more likely to engage when they aren't restricted in who they're going to be chosen and when they're told that that ideology doesn't define them.
When you're told that being a democrat doesn't necessarily mean that you don't have the ability to have a say in how these parties, these two major pillars of american democracy, are going to function.
Given that constituents from both parties are impacted by the impacts of leaders no matter their party, we think that all constituents should have an impact to make a decision during the primary just like they would during the the general process the general election process.
And for this reason, open primaries in the united states are advantageous.