We should subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
So we want to give a little bit of background information in order to frame this debate before we explain why we think that to subsidize the cultivation of tobacco would increase competition and overall benefit citizens of the nations where subsidies exist.
So recognize that we don't think it's the job of governments to determine what good and bad products are.
So we don't think that subsidies should be based on some sort of moral compass or some sort of moral determination but rather should be based on market forces that determine which which sectors are growing and which sectors become profitable and which sectors people should be invested in within the state.
And secondly what we need to point point out about tobacco is even if in the developed world the use of tobacco is shrinking, in the developing world it's massively growing.
There's a huge market expansion in tobacco as it currently exists, which means that even if you think that tobacco is this bad thing that the government shouldn't be paying in order to create, it's important to recognize that there is money on the table to be had and that the government needs to make a choice about whether or not we want that money to go into the pockets of of our own citizens or we want the market share to go to other people.
What we would say is that the state should prioritize its own citizens and the prosperity of its citizens and in subsidizing the cultivation of tobacco you don't entirely pay for the process and you don't entirely create the profit from the industry, rather you allow businesses in developed in the developed world to compete on a global stage in order to gain even more profit.
So why do we think this is the case?
Recognize that other producers in the developing world simply do not have wage and worker laws that influence how much they need to pay, which means this drives down the cost of tobacco in other parts of the world.
It's simply cheaper to produce tobacco when you don't need to pay your workers a living wage and you don't need to provide them with benefits and all of these types of things like is the case in the developed world in america and europe where where subsidization subsidizing of tobacco takes place.
So we think what we need to do is create an instant an instance in which people are able to compete.
And recognize that agriculture is simply cheaper in other areas but people, while it's not a major sector of developed economies, it's still a sector in which thousands and thousands of people work and the skills that you acquire in the agriculture sector are simply nontransferable.
Which means that if you allow these businesses to die, if you allow the market to become unequal between the developed and the developing world, it means that your own citizens are not going to be able to find other sectors of work that they can easily transition into.
Which means for thousands of people they're going to be out of employment and sooner than one would expect it would mean that these people are not capable of transitioning into other fields.
We think that it would be preferable to subsidize tobacco because it creates a fair level of competition to compete against those that do not have the same laws that create things like the minimum wage and other types of worker protection.
What this means is that when you have the subsidy it allows your own producers to capture a larger share of the global market and it also means that you decrease the trade deficit that currently exists between the developed and the developing world to equalize trade relations and to equalize the share of power in the global market.
We think it's important that the government take care of its own citizens first and we think in subsidizing tobacco you ensure that people working in the agriculture sector are able to continue to thrive and able to continue to compete and able to capture a large portion of an immensely and rapidly growing market.
And for these reasons we should subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.