We should not end the use of agricultural subsidies.
In this round, the government makes two main arguments as to why we should end agricultural subsidies.
The first argument is that subsidies, especially from developed countries like the united states, kill foreign competition by driving down the prices of their own goods and making them more competitive even though, in reality, this creates a market inefficiency.
We think that governments should be only concerned with the well-being of their own citizens.
Whether or not you believe that all people have innate value and whether or not you think on the individual level I should care just as much about a foreigner as I do my own countrymen, the reality is that the government is a special body that exists to facilitate the well-being of those within its borders, which means that the US government should not be concerned with the mexican agricultural industry, it should be concerned with the united states agricultural industry.
And if the agricultural industry is failing and causing people to lose their jobs and their livelihoods, oftentimes their family homes, if it means that there's less economic production because we don't have these subsidies, then the government is entirely justified and, in fact, should be giving out these subsidies.
Because the US government has an obligation to its citizens as those are the people that bear the burden of its laws, its taxation, the constraints that it places on them, it has a reciprocal duty to its citizens that it does not owe to others that are not constrained by the same forces, that live outside of its borders.
Then, the government goes on to make an argument that because millions of mexicans lost their jobs, it led to illegal immigration which harmed the US, and so these subsidies in a roundabout way have tertiary harms that outweigh the benefits.
So, firstly, this this this is a round about agricultural subsidies in general.
We don't think that an example of harm coming to the agricultural industry in the US, one example, is sufficient to illustrate the principled reason why these subsidies don't create a more competitive environment for domestic goods that allows them to be more profitable, which ultimately leads to more gains for US businesses or domestic businesses.
And additionally, there's other ways to prevent even the specific harm that the government side brings up, like having stronger border crackdowns and more immigration more immigration crackdowns or, maybe, having foreign direct investment into other industries within mexico that provides both jobs for mexicans and business opportunities for americans.
These are all alternatives that counteract this issue without taking away the subsidy itself or showing why the subsidy is bad.
The second argument they make is that these subsidies end up being bad for the environment because they incentivize people to cultivate more land and that the and that the industrial agriculture industry does things like release pesticides into the environment, use a lot of fossil fuels which harms the environment, and changes the entire ecosystem of the land.
We have four responses.
The first is that the subsidies actually create , in many instances, less land being developed, because it means you don't need to develop as much crop in order to get the same yield.
Because your business is more is being essentially inflated, if the value of it is being essentially inflated by the subsidies, then you don't need to go and farm the same amount of area and, in fact, oftentimes the united states government gives payments to farmers to make sure that certain land stays preserved.
The second response is that people are actually incentivized for these less for less less cultivation.
The third response that we have is that you can just do subsidies for things like vertical farming.
Like you don't need to only subsidize traditional agricultural industries, but you can have new industries and new developments occur that allow this to be done in a more sustainable way.
And finally, we're just skeptical that this is actually a meaningful tipping point, when mass agriculture happens regardless, and for these reasons, we should not end the use of agricultural subsidies.