We should increase wealth redistribution.
So as the model we want to go for in this round, we think is fairly straightforward, what we would do would be institute a higher tax on the highest levels of income.
So in the status quo there are different tax brackets in the united states and we think that the rates of the highest tax bracket should be increased dramatically and that tax breaks and tax rebates should be given to those at the lowest level of wealth correspondingly.
So a few reasons why we think wealth redistribution, large wealth redistribution is necessary.
The first is that the status quo is a system in which we are seeing the largest levels of economic inequality since the pre-depression era.
The difference between the top one percent and the bottom fifty percent in the amount of wealth accumulated, the average median wealth, the standard of living, all these things are more despaired than they have been in the last than anytime in the last century.
The problem with this is two fold: first productivity is growing in markets all across the world.
We're in a boom period right now in which unemployment is low, in which productivity is high and yet wages are stagnant.
Which we think is is a sign that while productivity is being created by everyone the benefits of that productivity are not being felt by all people correspondingly, and that's because people, even though unemployment is at a relatively low level right now, there's still not a high competition for jobs across all sectors.
There's still a number of people that are under employed to a degree and a number of people who have stopped looking for jobs.
So even though the unemployment rate is low levels of levels of pay in income can still be low, especially for unskilled labor.
And that's what a large portion of this wealth inequality comes from.
Is that large portions of the citizenry work in unskilled labor.
But they're still creating productivity that is going to everyone.
There's no reason that the CEO and the chair people of the mcdonald's corporation should be making a thousand times more per hour than their employees that are working at the counter.
We just don't think that the actual amount of productivity that is being driven by those at the top is sufficient to merit the difference in pay between people.
And the second argument as to why this is an issue is that this is just bad for the market system.
Even if you're a proponent of free market capitalism, massive wealth inequality leads to a system in which fewer and fewer people can afford the goods that are being produced as more people get priced out of luxury goods and more people get priced out of not even luxury goods, just goods that are flowing through the economy.
It means there's less money to be spent, it means fewer people are saving, it means that there's less money to be invested.
All of these problems come from having so much money accumulated at the very highest levels of wealth.
Because you can only buy so many mansions.
You can only poor so much money into the economy until you're simply hoarding wealth to a point where it harms everyone else.
And we think of the state has an obligation to protect all of its citizens.
And in that protection we think should come some sort of basic standards of life that are guaranteed for all citizens.
Just because you're someone who's unskilled, just because you didn't go to college or just because you weren't born into the situation in which you were able to get a high paying job, doesn't mean that you should have to struggle month to month worrying about whether or not you can pay your rent.
Worrying about whether or not the two to three jobs and the sixty hours of week that you're working are enough for you to just afford being alive.
We don't think that that is a life of meaning, we don't think that's a life that is well lived and because of that we think that the government has an obligation to step in and ensure that these basic standards can be met for their citizens.
And it's not like taking away another ten percent of a billionaire's money is going to have a meaningful impact on their lives.
They're still going to be wealthy beyond the imagination of most people, but it means that more money can go to those who are struggling in their day to day lives, it means more people can have sustainable lifestyles in which they know that there is some sort of safety net for them.
And for these reasons we should increase wealth redistribution.