We should not introduce a smoking ban.
Despite the obvious harms that come from smoking, we do not think that it is the government's role to dictate what people are allowed to do with their body, that violating someone's bodily autonomy simply for the purpose of imbuing your value system on them is not is not a legitimate way to form is not a legitimate way to govern and creates a sense of tyranny that is ultimately unjust.
So, let's go through the arguments that the government side presents.
They give you two broad reasons why we should ban smoking.
The first is because of the harms of secondhand smoke, that third-party harms by individual third-party harms created by individuals smoking means that we should ban smoking because even if individuals are willing to take on the risk themselves, others aren't consenting to this, and they give the example of children with parents who smoke.
So a couple of responses.
First, we think it's totally legitimate to ban people from smoking in public spaces, which the vast majority of places already do.
The the government speaker talks about like smoking in bars but, personally, I've never been to a bar where you could just smoke inside of the bar.
Most people are forced to go outside.
And that's the easy response to this, is that people can just smoke outside in areas where the actual impact of secondhand smoke just is negligent.
Like if your if you're a parent with a child who smokes or a parent who smokes with a child, you can just go smoke outside.
The idea that like we're fine with saying, also, it's child abuse to like smoke in the same room as a child.
That's legitimate, but there's easy options for people to get around these harms these secondhand harms that mean that you don't need to ban this.
We think that banning something is an extreme act that means that there should be really no other recourse, and there's clear recourse here.
They try to say that everyone just smokes in public, like that you don't just smoke in your apartment or anywhere else, but we think, again, this is ludicrous.
You can just smoke outside.
This is what the vast majority of smokers do in the status quo, and people do smoke in their home.
Like this is just not a reason to ban this.
It's just an assertion about how people behave.
So, the second argument that they make is that it's justified to paternalize individuals for their own sake and says that no rational person chooses to smoke.
So, while it's certainly true that smoking is not a rational decision for your long-term health or is not is not a decision that maximizes your long-term health, to say that people should have certain value systems and for the government to place that on them, we think, is unjust.
We think ultimately what the government should allow people to do is form their own value systems so long as they don't hurt other people, which is why we're fine banning smoking in public but not outright.
And we think that people can choose to take on the benefits of smoking at their own risk.
Many people find smoking to be relaxing, a way of calming themselves.
Many people find smoking to be something that they want to do socially.
Some people just don't value their long-term health to the degree that others do, and we think that that is a legitimate a legitimate choice to make.
There's no reason that the number of lives the number of years lived necessarily means quality of life is higher.
And we think that people should be able to make those value choices for themselves, especially adults, which is what we're talking about in this round.
Then they assert that people start smoking because they're inebriated.
This is an argument by example.
This doesn't say why people are more likely to be this way.
It doesn't give any source for why people do this.
This says, " I know some people that have done this so it must be true of all, " and we think that the government to just make legislation legislation that bans an action because of an assertion like this is is ludicrous.
The final argument is that people shouldn't be able to smoke because of those long-term harms.
This is just an argument whose principled claim that the government should ban x because it creates long-term impacts is an argument that justifies almost any sort of government action, and we just think that this takes the government's power where way beyond a scope that we're comfortable with.
For these reasons, we should not introduce a smoking ban.