Open primaries in the united states are not advantageous.
We're gonna start by talking about what the purpose of these primaries are, and to explain why the idea of having an open primary runs contradictory to that idea, and secondly we're gonna talk about the likely results of open primaries and why those results themselves are also disadvantageous.
So firstly, what are the purposes of primaries?
We think that primaries exist not as a structure of the government but as a structure of the party system.
Of independent organizations that privately exist to organize politically.
We think the nature of these types of the nature of primaries is to help determine what is best in the eyes of party numbers.
Why do we think party members are important?
Well firstly, party members are what allowed this organization to thrive, aside from the political leaders and the think tank leaders that exist in these organizations, party members pay dues into the party, they donate to candidates and to their campaigns and their volunteer work are what allow parties to be successful broadly and in the long run.
Because of this we think that these members are owed the ability to voice their opinion on who's going to represent their ideas.
The party exists as a vehicle for their ideas.
It is a vehicle for their political participation and as such, open primaries disavow the importance of those people.
Open primaries say to those individuals that their views are not as important or not the most important to the party, even though those are the people that are that are the reason that you're able to be successful as a party.
We also think that primaries ensure that your base will be satisfied with the candidate that you select.
Why is this important?
Well, as a party you exist to win elections.
You exist to ensure that the political results of elections are those that are most satisfactory to your members and the ones that are most advantageous to candidates that you are running.
In order to win any sort of election, whether it be a senatorial election or presidential election, you need to have a base of support amongst those that are within your party.
If your base is not energized it's incredibly difficult to win an election.
This is part of the reason why hillary clinton lost a trump the most recent election.
Because many people that were a part of the democratic base had disavowed her as a candidate, had disavowed what she had stood for.
Because of this, other she, even though independents may have been swayed to join her side, the size of the base was simply not enough to over to overwhelm the opposing base.
And this is the issue that faces all political parties in america.
Republicans and democrats in america when they're going into an election.
So you need to ensure that your primaries lead to a result in which you'll get a candidate that your base can support.
So, why do we think that this is unlikely going to be the case with open primaries?
We think that open primaries dilute the purity of the results of that party candidate.
It means that people that are not ideological aligned with the party and do not have the party's best interest in its ur in their hearts, that these people are voting in these elections, which means they can skew those election results towards individuals that are furthest away from what the party stands for and furthest away from what the mainstream party stands for.
Because of this we think that we are likely going to get is candidates that that strive and go away from what the base wants and that you get candidates that are, compared to if you were to have closed primaries, less less of an approximation for what the party stands for.
And as standard bearers, as candidates are standard bearers for these parties we think that you're going to ensure that your base isn't energized by these people, that your base isn't fully rewarded which might lead them to turn to other parties, to turn to other candidates, or equally problematic, if you're trying to win election, not show up to vote on the day of the election at all.
Both of these are immensely problematic for any successful party in the united states and because of this we think that open primaries are not advantageous.