We should not disband planned parenthood.
So the first argument that the government side makes in this debate is that planned parenthood sponsors abortion and that abortion is an inherently immoral action that takes place and the combination of the fact that planned parenthood fosters and allows for this immoral action to occur and the fact that it receives public money in order to function and it puts that public money towards abortions that it should be disbanded as an organization.
So firstly, regardless of the morality of abortion it is a legal medical practice that women are entitled to obtain and planned parenthood is entitled to perform that legal medical practice.
Nothing that planned parenthood is doing is illegal in any way, shape or form and because of this, we think that on a legal basis there's clearly no reason to disband planned parenthood.
The second argument that needs to be pointed out is that the vast majority of planned parenthood has nothing to do with abortion but rather other women's health care needs and family planning assistance whether it's prividing contraceptive for low income individuals, whether it's giving things like mammograms for people that can't afford them.
It's about family planning and about health care first and abortions are just part of the part of the product that planned parenthood is.
It's it's a service that planned parenthood offers but it doesn't take up eighty percent of its budget or fifty percent of its budget or even ten percent of its budget.
It's a small portion of the services that planned parenthood provides.
Thirdly, we would just say that abortion is a moral act and that planned parenthood is doing absolutely nothing wrong.
While morality is certainly a fluid thing, we think that it only covers those that are part of our social sphere.
That because morality is a construct, a social construct, we think that that construct can only necessarily apply to those that participate in our social sphere and a fetus is in no way part of that sphere.
Whether you value the the potential future of that fetus or not does not change the fact that that fetus cannot participate in the social sphere in any way whatsoever and because of that we think that abortion may not be a good thing, it may not be a morally positive thing, but we think it is certainly not an immoral act.
And finally, this just needs to be pointed out, planned parenthood does not use public money to perform abortions and therefore the government has no standing legally whatsoever to disband planned parenthood.
And the second argument that the government side makes is that regardless of the morality of abortion, planned parenthood is incredibly unpopular and is something that should be shut down.
So first, despite the fact that planned parenthood receives money from the government to do some operations it is certainly a subsidized business.
Planned parenthood is still a private corporation.
It's a nonprofit organization and so forced disbanding of this would obviously be illegal.
We think that with private corporations just because they are unpopular unless they are doing a harm or doing something illegal, there's no reason that the government can intervene and even if it weren't illegal to disband planned parenthood, we think that planned parenthood is a great service.
It provides much needed health care and family planning for for thousands and millions of people.
We think that irregardless of the issue of abortion, planned parenthood is providing an essential service especially in areas that are under-covered and under-provided for by the government and we think that between the contraception, the family planning, the women's health that planned parenthood deals with, it is a fantastic organization and we certainly should not disband planned parenthood.