Blood nation should not be mandatory.
In this round, we're gonna make two main arguments about why we think mandatory blood donation is both unnecessary but, firstly, why we think it is unjust.
We think that the right to bodily autonomy is the utmost and most important right that the state exists to protect.
We think that, in the state apparatus, people do not have a meaningful ability to consent to the state, to consent to the laws that they are being forced into, the taxes that they're paying.
And while there are proxies for consent that exist, such as elections and and ways of participating civilly in the state that that form some sort of a proxy for consent, this is not meaningful consent, and you can tell that, because I can't simply revoke my consent to certain laws in the united states.
And some may say, " well, you could just leave the united states, " but then I would have to be going to another state apparatus that exists that would control me.
There's no free land, an open, unregulated land that exists, left in the world.
And because of and this is just not something that's feasible to access.
So given all of that, we think that the state is not just because of consent.
What we think makes the state just is that people would consent into the state because it provides them protections that otherwise wouldn't exist in the state and outside of the state, and that foremost protection is bodily autonomy.
It's the ability to have control over your body in a meaningful way, the ability to know that outside actors will not interfere in your treatment of your own bodily of your own body, and they won't take of you what is already yours, what is on your person, what is fundamentally you.
And because of that, we think that mandatory blood donation would undermine the very fundamental purpose of the united states or of any state government.
While, certainly, it would be beneficial to have increased blood donations and there are certainly shortages in the status quo, we think that we think that there are other ways that you can do that that don't undermine the purpose of the state itself.
So let's talk about some of those other ways, because we think that what you need to do is incentivize donations to the point at which people are more willing to give.
So we think that you can do things like give subsidies to different organizations in order to make it cheaper and more affordable for them to raise blood, to have blood drives in more in a wider variety of places.
You can fund those organizations in such a way so that they are able to get more donations generally.
But you can also do things like provide tax breaks to individuals who donate blood.
So you can give incentives that allow people to essentially make a little bit of money for donating blood in a way that doesn't require blood donation to be mandatory.
It still is a fully and freely a freely made choice about how you're using your body, you're just you just have a different incentive structure now, and you are now more willing to take this action.
And because of that, we think that you can get higher levels of blood donations.
Blood donation for most people is a fairly easy process.
It's something that generally doesn't take you out of your working day for more than a couple of hours.
It's something that is healthy, and it's something that saves lives.
It's not something that's hard to market, but and once you add that incentive, something like a tax break for doing for doing a blood donation, we think you're going to get a dramatic rise in donors, and you're going to meet the goal of this policy without undermining the purpose of the state.
For these reasons, blood donation should not be mandatory.