We should support water privatization.
When we mean when we talk about water privatization what we mean is that sources of fresh water, resources for fresh water instead of being controlled by government actors we think should be leased out to private actors and be run by those private actors.
Now to be clear we're not saying that we should sell that water off to them to make it so that they can simply use it how they see fit, but rather the distribution of that water, the the way that the infrastructure exists in order to deliver that water to people, the upkeep for those systems, those types of things, all of the systemic needs for giving out water and the public good that is water, we think that we should lease those those facilities out.
We think that we should allow people to be able to make money off of those systems.
We should allow private actors to run that infrastructure and ensure those systems are effective.
So let's talk about the benefits of privatization.
The first is that it lower costs it lowers the cost to to provision water.
It lowers the cost of doing these types of things because if you have such a system when you're leasing out the ability to distribute water you can one, do this in a variety of different sections so that you can have different actors competing against each other for different for different tracks of water privatization, for different infrastructure areas and in this way you can create competition in the market which leads to various activities such as cutting out waste from the system in a comparative sense comparing it between a government run system in which your incentivized not to create low prices but rather to give jobs to people and as a politician make it seem like you are doing good for various members of the community as opposed to just delivering low cost inefficient manners and it also means that you have competition going against each other so that the profits that people are willing to accept get driven down and in all you have a system of lower costs for consumers.
It also means you've competition for higher quality and this is something that is incredibly important in today's day and age.
Many will say that you can just vote people out of office, that the government is directly responsible to the people and therefore they guarantee quality.
But this is simply not the case.
Even in developed countries such as the united states, you've many areas much like flint michigan, which is not the only area in which this occurs, in which governments have governments currently have massive amounts of neglect for these regions and because of that we think that as long as monopolies are broken up there are always alternative options for cleaner water.
As long as you don't give a monopoly on all water privatization in a region to one business, then you have an incentive outside of the care of the people in the region provide clean water because people can to shift their resources and shift their spending to a different business, to a different firm and additionally, this means that if there is a system in which one group is behaving poorly, we think the government is much more likely to take action and lash out and blame that private firm and find a new firm that can deliver higher quality than it is to accept the responsibility for the harm that it's caused such is the case in flint michigan in which people are still drinking dirty water after year after a year of exposure in this field.
And additionally on top of all this, a second argument we want to bring forward is that we think the government principally should be as small as possible.
We think that the government exists to provide protections for people's basic rights and exists as a way to ensure that laws are upheld but in every other aspect we think that there are private actors that can do the jobs that government actors are able to do.
In these respects such as running infrastructure in terms of water and the distribution of water, cleaning water making sure it's safe for consumption, these are things that private actors are perfectly capable of doing and because of that we think that private actors should be the ones that are allowed to do this.
Free people within the state should be able to in a free market form these relationships and start these businesses and have the ability to gain for themselves as opposed to letting the government control this, control the profits, and ultimately produce these things in a lower quality in a more wasteful way.
For these reasons, we should support water privatization.