We should not support water privatization.
So when we're talking about water privatization we think what we're likely talking about is leasing out to businesses the ability to run water infrastructure to facilitate the general water trust in the general public utility that is clean water and allowing them to profit off of that business.
But we think that there's a few issues with this and the first is we think most obvious, that water should be and ultimately is a public utility.
Water fresh water is not something that any individual person brought to the free market system.
It's not like someone through their labor created the fresh water reserves that we have now and we think that water ultimately as a necessary right to someone being alive, as a necessary right as a necessary part of human existence, should be guaranteed as a right to all and because it is such an important public utility we think that it is ultimately best entrusted to the government, the body of the public rather than putting it into private hands.
We think it's problematic to think that corporations who didn't create the value that is existing with water like the corporations don't provide anything unique that the government can provide, yet we're giving them a resource that ultimately should be owned by all of us in saying you can profit off of this resource.
You can profit off of the public land in the public the public benefits that exist of water and rather we think that the government should be in charge because the government if it accrues profits then that's great.
That's more money that goes back into the people where the value of water should ultimately reside.
If it's not a benefit created by a private actor, then we don't think the private actor should accrue value from it and again, we don't think that they create a unique positive change from our current system.
We think that governments are more likely to be accountable than private business.
Now many will point to instances like flint michigan and say how can you say that the government is appropriately distributing water?
How can you ensure that it is holding that it is creating clean standards, etcetera?
But we think that while it's certainly the case that the government is fallible, big businesses are also fallible and if you look at how water privatization would work it's not likely that you would have multiple utility companies in one area.
This isn't how utilities work for almost anything in the united states.
If you're on the electric grid you're probably being provided from the only provider in your area.
If you're on cable you're probably being provided by one of maybe a couple of providers in your area.
Water would probably be much like these other utilities in which local monopolies exist and because of that we think that it's unlikely that the quality of the water would increase at all.
At least in the government system you have the political outrage that can be sparked against instances like flint michigan and you can get public public feedback to those through things like elections and through different types of practices in the political system to ensure that those things are fixed.
Yes, the government is fallible but to simply pass off water as a utility to private businesses and think this is going to be the solution to all the problems that the government creates is naive and frankly and frankly it could cause more problems than there are in the status quo.
Finally, we think that one of those major problems would be decreased access.
While it's certainly the case that any sort of lease system for a water utility company would likely have some sort of mandate to ensure some access to most people, we think that it is unlikely that this will be done in a way that is fair and even across all people simply because we think as a business you're likely to charge different rates for people to receive different quality of service.
This is what happens for other utilities in the in the country as well and we're moving towards a country that's more accepting of this through things like the removal of net neutrality.
We think that it is likely the case that some people would be discriminated against.
Some people would be denied access to clean water in a meaningful way and there'd be very little or no repercussions for the private business that did this.
For these reasons, we should not support water privatization.