We should not ban alcohol advertising.
So before we get into the kind of meat of this round, we want to, firstly, out of principle that we're going to defend, which is that we're fine to regulate where this advertisement can appear, for example, we're fine to say that you shouldn't be able to advertise for alcohol before movies that aren't rated r or on television shows during certain times of the day, but we think to ban advertising, a legal product, in general, is ridiculous.
So the first argument that the government side makes is that alcohol advertising makes bad impressions on minors.
So we have four responses to this argument.
The first is that we're fine with limiting the spaces where alcohol is advertised to limit the bad impact of those advertisements.
Secondarily, we think there are tons of worse ways that children get impressions of alcohol and get pressured into drinking alcohol, like from friends and like from behavior of their parents.
So we think that the actual impact of alcohol advertising is much smaller than people on the government side would make it out to be.
Thirdly, we allow things like violence to be advertised through movies, and video games, and commercials, and all these types of things.
Why is alcohol any different?
We don't think that alcohol is a worse blight on our society, and even alcoholism, than violence within our society, yet we let violence appear in our popular media all the time.
Why don't why can't alcohol advertising be the same way?
And fourthly, we think that even if the government is right that this advertising is bad, you still have laws that prevent young people from drinking legally.
And so we think even if these even if alcohol advertising is just brainwashing children into wanting to go and buy a beer, which is highly hyperbolic and certainly not the case, we think the government still has rules and regulations and oversight in place to make sure that this doesn't happen en masse.
The second argument that the government side makes is that alcohol is bad for people, and many people become addicted to it, and they draw a comparison that they say we ban advertising of cigarettes for the same reason, an entirely legal product.
So, firstly, we think there's already tons of warnings about alcohol's bad side effects.
Someone that is drinking alcohol in basically any country in the world understands that alcohol is not good for them.
It's not going to make them healthier in any way.
And they know that there are risks of becoming intoxicated and being inebriated, and it's fine to force advertising to state this as well.
We don't have to require a ban to exist in order to say that.
If you want to treat alcohol like any sort of medication where a pharmaceutical has to state its side effects, we're totally fine with that, but we think that banning the advertising of this legal product outright is unjust, and we think that goes for cigarettes too.
We think that cigarettes, much like how alcohol should be use should be limited in where you can advertise and how you can advertise, but we think that a total ban on cigarettes, much like a total ban on alcohol, would be unjust, or advertising of those things, I should say.
Finally, we would say that people can freely make choices for themselves given that there's no asymmetry of of of information or direct third-party harm that arises from advertising in alcohol.
And therefore we keep and for those reasons, we keep alcohol legal.
It's because people can make reasonable choices for themselves about consuming alcohol.
If it's going to be legal and we're going to allow businesses to exist to produce and sell alcohol, we think we should treat them just like any other business.
Sure, advertising of alcohol right now glorifies a lot of things about drinking that are wrong.
We think that that's how advertising works for most products and if you want to leave it out of the impression of minors, there's ways to regulate it besides banning.
For these reasons, we should not ban alcohol advertising.