Should introduce a smoking ban.
In this round, we're gonna make four main arguments as to why we should introduce a smoking ban.
The first argument is that smoking is, in a very objective sense, bad for you in every meaningful way.
We've known for decades now that smoking cigarettes causes lung damage, it causes deterioration of other faculties, it it leads to addiction.
And this doesn't only increase your chance of things like lung cancer, and cardiovascular disease, and other sorts of life-threatening diseases, but it also harms your quality of life, even if you are able to live long term.
Even if it doesn't take years off of your life, it takes time off of your life that can be lived in relatively high quality of health.
And because of this, we think that even if you don't value, as an individual, longevity of life, you should value that quality of the life that you are living, and smoking meaningfully impacts that ability to live a quality life.
In every sense of the word, it is objectively bad for you.
Secondarily, smoking is unnecessary in every way.
There is no meaningful health benefit that is derived from smoking.
There's no sort of gain that comes from an individual if they start to smoke.
And, in fact, many of the benefits that people profess about smoking, the ability to check out of their day in some way, take breaks in an otherwise very structured day, the ability for people to feel calmer, more relaxed, the sort of rejuvenation that people feel when they smoke cigarettes, this is a benefit that is only derived once those habits form.
There's no sort of benefit, there's no relaxation, no rejuvenation if you're just starting to smoke for the first time.
So, introducing a ban, we think, would prevent people from forming these habits and, therefore, these benefits don't accrue in any meaningful way, and we think that these benefits are outweighed by the objectively harmful nature of cigarettes on your health in a day-to-day life.
And we think that you can introduce this ban in such a way that you can prevent people from smoking if they're below a certain age.
You can start scaling up that age so that maybe if someone is fifty five years old and they've been smoking all their life, maybe that person is so far beyond the point of trying to help them or is so set in their ways that this ban shouldn't affect them, but you can have a sliding scale for when this would take affect.
The third argument is that this drains capital from productive uses.
Putting money into marlboro, into american spirit, into other tobacco industries is a much less productive use of that capital than if it's going into things like the tech sector, or if it's going into furthering your education, even if it's being taxed and simply going into infrastructure or defense.
There are so many other productive industries that exist that create meaningful benefits for people in their day-to-day lives that putting any money into the tobacco industry is immensely harmful, is an immensely wasteful use of that money that otherwise could be used in more productive ways, or it could just be used to save.
Smoking people that are regular smokers spend thousands up to five thousand dollars per year on cigarettes.
That's five thousand dollars a year that they can just keep in the bank and that they can use to further grow their savings, and ensure security for themselves in the long term, a long term that is likely to be longer if they stop smoking cigarettes.
And, finally, we think that it is perfectly justified for the government to paternalize.
We think that the government paternalizes by its very nature.
The existence of the government as a body that does that dictates laws, that says what you may and may not do, and sets boundaries for how you can exist is, in essence, a major body for paternalization.
And when we know as a as a society and as a government that smoking is: one, highly addictive and prevents rational decision-making, two, has no objective benefits for an individual, and three, is a poor use of resources, we think that it ticks every box that justifies the government to paternalize in this way and to ban smoking.
For these reasons, we should introduce a smoking ban.