Criticism of the iraq war is not justified.
First, we want to state what we think the burden for our side is in this round as we think that most people would say that the iraq war should be criticized and can be criticized.
So we don't think the round is about whether or not it is acceptable to criticize the war but rather about whether those specific criticisms that are levied against it are themselves justified and overall was the iraq war in principle a justified war.
So the first argument that the government side makes is that the weapons of mass destruction reasoning that was used by the bush administration to enter the war was not only wrong but they knew it wasn't true and we targeted iraq unnecessarily following nine_eleven when resources should have gone elsewhere.
So the first thing that we would say to this is that while it's true that the intelligence showed that saddam hussein didn't have nuclear weapons or any sort of weapons that could threaten the united states, he did routinely use chemical weapons against his own citizens something that is forbidden by international law.
So while maybe he didn't have weapons of mass destruction that could target us, he certainly was stockpiling weapons that were adversarial to his own people.
And the second thing to recognize is that saddam was still antagonistic towards the united states and at the time iraq harbored extremist groups like al qaeda and so the regime posed a clear threat to US security.
Even if the repercussions of the war resulted in bad outcomes like more extremism, this was the result of a combination of both unpredictability but also the way the war took place.
But it's not a reason that the war itself was not justified in principle and when the government side says that because the the excuse that we went into the war was wrong it never should have happened in the first place, we think that this is untrue.
We think iraq and the extremist groups within iraq still posed a serious threat to the united states and that while saddam didn't have nukes he still was a brutal leader that should have been targeted.
So the second argument the government side makes is that the iraq war created a power vacuum and that just caused massive regional instability that we're dealing with today.
So firstly, much of the regional instability in the middle east is a result of both the arab spring and other pre-existing regional conflicts such as that in yemen and the conflict that exists kinda persistently between iran and saudi arabia.
So we think that the degree to which the iraq war created this instability is overblown.
But when you're talking about isis and the rise of isis, which is generally what people are saying when they say the iraq war created instability in the region is that it gave rise to isis, it's important to remember that iraq was already in a seriously bad place with a corrupt government that discriminated against its people and killed large portions of its population and was antagonistic in the region writ large.
It was antagonistic towards towards israel, it was antagonistic towards iran and so we think that even though the power vacuum that occurred was bad, we certainly wouldn't disagree with that that isis is bad.
We think that this again is a criticism of the execution of the government building that took place following the war and that maybe reconstruction efforts of the iraq after the iraq war did not go as well as they should of.
But this isn't a refutation of the just nature of the war itself and so we think that in actuality the the situation on the ground in iraq was worth intervening in.
It was one that we think despite the reasoning not being the not being entirely true, that the war itself was a good war and that overall criticism of the iraq war is not justified.