We should not increase wealth redistribution.
In this round we're gonna make four arguments about why we think that it is unnecessary and ultimately unjust to increase wealth redistribution.
Firstly let's talk about property rights and what we think the state exists to do.
We don't think that it is the case that a free state exists to ensure equal outcomes amongst all of its citizens.
We think that is certainly the case that people's natural abilities, people's propensity for labor and there willingness their willingness to put more effort into their daily lives, as well as other factors that exist outside of state control, guide the ability for people to earn increased profit.
We think that the state does not exist to ensure that that profit is distributed in the most economical and the most just and even way, but rather the state should exist to ensure equal opportunity for all people.
To ensure that all people have the ability based on their own based on their own willingness and their own capacity to try and accrue the property that many wish to have.
We think that simply because the wealthy have accrued immense value and have become wealthy as they are doesn't necessarily mean that they haven't earned the money that they've gained.
And more importantly we think that the standard the state should be setting is one to ensure strict control of property rights.
To ensure a very strong and idea of property rights in the state because this insures that people have security in knowing that they can accrue property, it insures that people are motivated to accrue that property and ultimately we think it is just for the state to protect the ability for people to do so.
We also think that wealth redistribution already exists to a sufficient degree.
If you look at somewhere, even like the united states, that isn't a particularly tax heavy state on the wealthy, you still have forty percent of americans that aren't paying taxes and aren't paying any sort of income tax while the wealthy have to pay upwards of forty percent of their highest earnings of of the vast majority of their wealth every year to the state.
And in not just in income tax but also in things like property taxes, luxury taxes, other things, capital gains taxes, all these have unique impact on the wealthy that ensure that they're already being taxed at a dramatic degree.
In large part so that subsidies in different types of social safety nets can be accrued to put that money to work for the lowest classes.
We think that it is certainly it is certainly at a sufficient level right now.
To take forty percent of every of a person's earnings, to take forty cents on every dollar that someone earns over a certain amount, we think is taking a large portion of their labor value from them and is already diminishing property rights to a significant degree and it does not need to be impeded anymore.
We also think that there's economic problems that come with massive wealth redistribution such as the fact that massive amounts of wealth invested in the appropriate things can lead to things such as technological gains and other sorts of accrual of benefits to the larger society.
If you can take your wealth and invest it into something for example like space-ex, something that was a massive investment on the part of elon musk and something he wouldn't have been able to do if half of the money that he would have been investing in space-ex was instead put into the tax base and redistributed for social safety net.
It means that you don't get the sort of technological advances that ultimately benefit everyone.
And finally, even if you increase wealth redistribution you're still gonna have massive structural problems that do things like prevent people from being able to save enough money for their ability to retire it's it's still going to prevent them from avoiding the structural issues of not getting equal access to education, of not getting equal access to opportunity based on things like race and gender.
All these structural problems are the real cause of wealth inequality that exists in our modern society and addressing these problems rather than taking the lazy route of wealth redistribution is how we should proceed as a state to fight that problem.
For these reasons we should not increase wealth redistribution.