We should not support a phaseout of lightweight plastic bags.
In this round, we're going to make three arguments as to why shifting away from lightweight plastic bags is both unnecessary and why it could ultimately do more harm than good.
And that's where we want to start: is that when you think about the impact on the environment of lightweight plastic bags and you think to yourself about the alternative, it's important to recognize that the alternative isn't simply every person on the planet buying reusable bags, because plastic bags are an incredible convenience.
The ability to go to the grocery store, not have to worry about bringing a bag with you, knowing that you'll always have enough bags because you can just get more from the grocery store, the ease and convenience, frankly, for many people, is not going to diminish their desire to have something like plastic bags.
And, ultimately, what you're likely to have is you're still going to have paper bags as an option, and many people are going to choose that option.
Now some may say that this is fine, that paper is recyclable but, one: plastic is also recyclable, which I'll get to in a second, but two: many studies have shown that paper, because of the amount of deforestation and the other types of environmental harms of paper bags, may in fact outpace the potential harms of plastic bags.
So when we're shifting our behavior from largely plastic to largely paper, sure, there are going to be many people that choose to go the reusable route, but the same people that've been using plastic, right now, knowing the harms of it and that don't feel the need to go towards reusable bags are likely going to continue to have the same behavior, only with paper bags.
It is just the case that many people know of the harms of plastic pollution, many people know that reusable bags are an option, and yet are still too lazy or don't have the desire to shift over.
And so we think that behavior isn't going to change just because you ban plastic bags.
So, if paper studies have shown it's worse for the environment, then we think you're ultimately causing more harm than good.
The second argument that we want to make is that the issue with plastic bags is not their existence.
The issue with plastic bags is not that they can't be recycled, because plastic bags are just as capable of being recycled as the plastic bottles that we drink out of or the other plastics that we use in our day-to-day life.
There is a process for recycling these types of things.
The problem, rather, is pollution, and we think that same problem is likely to accrue if you shift over to paper bags rather than plastic.
We think that rather than phasing out lightweight plastic bags, we should be using that sort of political will, that legislative power, to do things like cracking down on people who pollute in these ways or doing things like providing increased tax subsidies for people that choose to recycle.
We think both of these are likely to have a greater impact on the on on decreasing the amount of plastic pollution that we actually see, and both of these things go to solve the larger problem with plastics.
Because it's not the case that plastic bags are the largest contributor or even a disproportionate amount of the plastic waste that we have, but rather all of the other aspects, the thousands of different ways that plastics are used in our day-to-day life, those are a major part and a major contributing factor to plastic waste and plastic pollution, and taking a wholesale approach to addressing that problem rather than just taking the short-term solution of phasing out lightweight plastic bags, we think, is ultimately the way to go.
And finally, recognize that just because the benefit that is accrued from plastic bags isn't dramatic doesn't mean that it isn't a convenience that many people like to have.
We think the political will is not in line with phasing out lightweight plastic bags but, rather, because it's convenient, for all of the reasons that I mentioned earlier in my speech, we think that it is actually something that provides a benefit to people.
And given that I've that I've presented alternatives for what we can do to address the problem of plastic solution and shown that taking this policy is unlikely to create a major dent in the harms of pollution that currently exist and the environmental harms we're creating, then that convenience is worth something to people and something that should outweigh the very marginal change that this policy may create.
For these reasons, we should not support a phaseout of lightweight plastic bags.