We should not ban live exports.
In this round, were gonna make two main arguments about why we think live exports, for any reason, should not be banned.
The first argument we're going to make is very straightforward: we think that animals have no inherent rights that humans need to need to respect.
So, we think that rights as a system, as a framework, are inherently a human construction.
If you look just in the natural world, there's no rights that are afforded within nature.
There's no right to life.
There's no right to property.
There's nothing about the natural order of the world in which we relate with animals, in which we relate with other species in our planet.
There's no inherent rights that are associated with that.
That natural order is associated with randomness, with chaos, with an an unending desire to try and stay alive at the at the risk of others.
And we think that, in that system, there's no natural rights that can be gained.
We think that human rights are a human construction that are constructed within our societies.
So we think that they are a they are something that is afforded to those that we consider to be within our societies, whether it's our global society of humanity or whether it's our society of individual nations.
That is the realm in which rights exist and in which rights are applied.
And rights were constructed for humans.
The rights that we consider to be so dear have nothing to do with what animals would want to desire.
It has nothing to do with ensuring pastures stay green, and ensuring that our environment isn't polluted, or ensuring that any of these types of things are included.
They're all made for the human perspective.
They're all made for human beings.
And, in this instance, we think that when we afford rights onto animals such as, you know, having specific protection laws against how you can treat your pets and these types of things, that these are all laws that we construct for our own benefit, because we see these things in our social environment, in our landscape, and we think that they're problematic.
We think that there's something wrong with them.
We feel some sort of inherent pain, but it's not it has nothing to do with what the animals are feeling.
Dogs are just as sentient as pigs, yet, in the united states, treating one inhumanely is a crime and in the other, it's common practice.
So we think that these are about how we feel towards these animals.
It has nothing to do about these animals inherently.
And all of that adds together to show that animals do not have any sort of inherent right.
So when people say, " well, the animals wouldn't like this.
Well, you can just slaughter them ahead of time, but we shouldn't be packing them away like , you know, packing them away into small confined spaces, it's not how they were meant to live, " that might all be true, but it doesn't mean that we should weigh them as having some sort of rights.
This should be something that we consider, and if we find it acceptable based on our own social understanding and our relations naturally to these animals, well then we think that's perfectly acceptable.
And because of that, we think that any sort of benefit that's derived from live exports, whether it's something like having fresher meat, or whether it's something like being able to import exotic animals, or whatever the reason may be, if there's a benefit to derived for humans, we think that it should be allowed, because when we're making legislation, when we're making law, these should all be made within that same social framework, that human-centric framework.
And for these reasons, we should not ban live exports.