We should not increase wealth redistribution.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think it would be unjust and why it is ultimately unnecessary to increase wealth redistribution.
The first argument, before we make any arguments, we want to outline what we think this debate is about.
Because we're not against investing in structures that allow people to improve their lives, we're not against doing things to try and improve the median income in america, but we are against taking money from the wealthy simply because they are wealthy and giving the money to those that have not earned it, for a few reasons.
The first is that we think that the state exists, in large part, to protect property rights.
One of the main distinctions between the state of nature and a government, a body in which there's protections for your freedoms, is that it allows a free market to arise.
It allows people to contract freely with each other, to dictate the terms of their service, and ultimately to have security in the wealth that they are able to accrue.
And while it's certainly the case that some people have accrued their wealth in nefarious ways, if they were behaving in ways that were legally allowed, then they should be allowed to freely contract within those legal confines.
Jeff bezos may not produce billions of dollars of worth by himself, but he did put the initial investment in and the initial building up of a company that has produced immense amounts of profit.
And, yes, while it's true that he makes much more than the average employee, we think that he has earned that right, that through the free market system he has done well for himself, and the fact that inequality is the result of the free market system does not dictate that you must take away that which has been rightfully gained by those with property.
Just targeting someone because they're rich and saying they're to blame for all of our problems doesn't recognize the actual systemic issues that exist in the world, which we'll get to in a second.
But the second argument that we want to make is that even if you believe in wealth redistribution, there is already in the status quo an aggressive amount of wealth redistribution.
If you look at taxation and how tax brackets exist, even in a country that doesn't tax the wealthy at relatively high weights, a country like the united states, you can see that for the bottom portion, for nearly forty percent of the american population, no taxes are paid whatsoever.
In fact, most of them get a tax rebate at the end of the year.
They get a tax credit simply for the fact that they are of a lower income.
Meanwhile, the wealthiest of americans get their income taxed at thirty, forty percent rates, meaning that for every dollar they're accruing, forty cents are being taken away from them.
We think that this is a perfectly justified system in the status quo, and we don't think that it is at all necessary to increase the amount of wealth redistribution.
Taking away more than half the money someone earns simply because they are wealthy diminishes and takes away from the value of their labor, from the value of their skill, and it deters people from trying to be successful, which we think leads to further problems down the road.
Finally, as we mentioned earlier, we don't think that redistribution solves the structural problems that lead to wealth inequality.
The issue that exists is not that people are able to gain wealth but rather that the state has been impotent in trying to help the average person.
There are protections that are not guaranteed to the average worker that should be guaranteed, things such such as a living wage, things such as protections for paid time off and for certain things that allow you to accrue wealth.
The social safety net, sure, should be expanded, and we think that different changes should be made in our legal system to ensure that the worst off are able to get basic protections, but this doesn't require direct government intervention and wealth redistribution.
Rather, it requires conscious governing and creating legal systems and a market system that is fair for all.
A system that is not coercive which is the system that we currently have, we think, is ultimately the solution to wealth inequality rather than just constant wealth redistribution where all the same structures remain in place.
For these reasons, we should not increase wealth redistribution.