We should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.
So at the very start of this debate we just want to make it incredibly clear that to subsidize any sort of product is to use public funds, to use money that's been taken through people via taxation and spend it on some other good.
Normally when we do this there some some there's some sort of social benefit that is associated with the subsidy.
Whether it's cleaning up pollution and having more green technology, or whether it's allowing new businesses to thrive that can provide good things for the market, new markets opening et cetera.
Tobacco does none of these things.
All the scientific effects of tobacco show that it is a detriment to your health.
That smoking tobacco can cause cancer.
It can lead to addiction.
It can lead to gum disease.
It can deteriorate your health and a number of cosmetic and non cosmetic ways that can be incredibly detrimental, and to subsidize tobacco only through public funds is to use public funds in a way to hurt the public.
It's like if you're going to use public funds to further police communities in a militaristic way.
To have military rule over society.
Now obviously this isn't this is not the same degree of that, but we think that it's similar in kind and that it's using public funds to harm the public.
So we think that is the first reason why this is simply unacceptable.
The second reason is that we think that it kind of that undermines the whole point of a subsidy to subsidize the tobacco industry.
Recognize that the tobacco industry has existed for hundreds of years and is a multinational multi billion dollar corporate system.
The corporations that fund tobacco camel, marlboro, these types of companies have immense amounts of funds at their availability.
They can lobby congress people.
They can get meetings with these people.
They have huge money to use on campaigns to try and get people elected that are going to be favorable to their point of view.
We simply don't think that tobacco is a product that needs to be subsidized.
Besides the fact that tobacco is overtly harmful to people, these corporations have the money to cultivate this and do it in a way that won't undercut their bottom line.
Tobacco cultivation is not an incredibly expensive process and because these corporations already have massive revenue sources coming in not just from america but largely from developing countries in which tobacco smoking and cigarette smoking is at an incredibly high level, we think that there's no reason why the government should step in to make a multibillion dollar corporation even more profitable, to put more pockets in the money put more money in the pockets of CEOs whose job it is is to grow a crop that will hurt people.
We think that's wrong.
And finally our last point is just about trade offs.
Recognized that what money is fungible.
If you were to subsidize tobacco in the cultivation of tobacco you wouldn't have that money to use in other types of subsidies.
You couldn't subsidize say the things we were talking about earlier, green technology or things of that nature.
We think that subsidizing almost anything else would be preferable to subsidizing the cultivation of tobacco.
Even if you were going to subsidize something that wasn't overtly a public good, even if you're going to subsidize something that was a specifically private interest, at least when you subsidize private interests that aren't multibillion dollar corporations, you're doing something that is actually beneficial to the market.
You're opening new markets.
You're creating new opportunities and new competition.
Subsidizing tobacco does none of that in the competitive market.
It doesn't enhance the market in any way and it only serves to increase the wealth of a few select people.
Because tobacco is harmful, it's an unnecessary subsidy, and the money would be better spent anywhere almost anywhere else.
We should not subsidize the cultivation of tobacco.