We should not ban chemical weapons.
So, we think that it's clear that chemical weapons are bad.
They can cause an immense amount of damage to an individual.
They can cause an incredible amount of pain to an individual.
But both of the things that I just said, can be applied to conventional weapons as well.
There's nothing about a bullet that is that is inherently any less painful or any less deadly than any type of chemical weapon.
And with that realization, it's important to recognize that discussions of chemical weapons are discussions of war and how to behave within war.
And with that in mind, we have three main argument.
The first is that laws of war are in and of themselves a contradictory idea.
The reason for this is that any sort of law of war argument is always going to be something that's going to be enforced by the winners.
The the winners the winners in a war are very rarely held accountable for the actions that they do within the war.
For example, we have an international criminal court now that has, in theory, some sort of backbone that prevents people from behaving in a bad way, that prevents them from violating laws of war.
But when the united kingdom in, hand in hand with the united states, tortured individuals in abu in abu ghraib and tortured individuals during the conflict in iraq, no one was held accountable.
Tony blair was never taken to that court.
No one was ever held accountable for those actions, and it shows that winners write the laws of war.
In all practical terms, laws of war are just another word for revenge by power players, rather than law itself.
And so we think regulating war in any sort of capacity is a foolhardy attempt at trying to trying to improve behavior in something that is fundamentally deadly and fundamentally just conflict.
So we think that laws of war, bans on chemical weapons, things like this, are inherently flawed because they'll never be enforced in a way that is even.
They'll never create just applications of that law.
So, with that being said, we think that laws that chemical weapons can serve as a tool in the toolbox.
And we think that when it comes to something like waging war, why states keep their options open rather than giving into other states, rather than not not having all options available to them, because when you're talking about war, you're talking about conflict.
You're talking about, first and foremost, the protection of your citizens.
The foremost obligation of the state is to protect its citizens.
And because of that, we think that if chemical weapons can be useful, if they can provide some sort of benefit to you in that conflict, we think that states should have the right to keep that open, because their ultimate their ultimate obligation is not to those that the chemical weapons will be used against but to their own citizens.
Finally, we think that arguments against chemical weapons are not unique.
The fact that they can have a torturous end and they can be incredibly painful is the same for a for a conventional weapon.
If I am shot in a particular area of my body, it can be a long time until I die and it can be a very painful process.
This is no different from chemical weapon from chemical weapons.
And people say that chemical weapons are indiscriminate, but if you're talking about a conventional weapon like a drone strike, this is also rather indiscriminate and is often being done from a remote location where you don't have an idea of what's going on on the ground.
War is a dirty business, and it is a bad thing and something that should be avoided.
But once in war, drawing a distinction between chemical weapons and conventional weapons is foolhardy, and it is bad for states as far as a real perception, as far as their obligation to keep their citizens safe in war.
For these reasons, we should not ban chemical weapons.