We should not introduce a smoking ban.
In this round, we're going to argue that introducing a smoking ban would be an unjust use of government authority and, ultimately, an unjust example of government paternalism.
So, we're gonna break that down into five reasons why we think it would be unjust to institute a smoking ban.
First and foremost, we want to present an idea of government that mandates that the government should exist to maximize personal freedom and individual liberty, and we don't think that this is much outside the realm of commonly accepted liberal western ideology.
We think that at the basic tenets of most democratic constitutions is the ability for people to live a free life in which people can make decisions for themselves as they see fit, and we think that it is most justified for this to be the case.
The government is not a system that people are able to consent to, nor is it like likely a system that they're able to opt out of in a meaningful way.
It's very hard to escape any sort of state apparatus altogether in our world, but unable to being unable to be unable to escape and and wanting to be a part of the state are two different things.
Because the state is a massive, coercive apparatus, and because people are forced by existing infrastructure and existing systems of human life to be a part of that state, we think that the state should make up for the fact that it is such a coercive force and that it doesn't rule fully with the consent of the people that it should create a system in which people are able to maximize their freedoms, in which an alternative world in which there's no state protection is always going to be a less desirable world.
And we think that world is one in which you maximize individual liberty and autonomy, especially in realms where you're making decisions fundamentally about how you want to live your life, and we don't think that the government should decide for people that health and longevity should be their ultimate goal.
While most people think in a way that they want to maximize how many years they have in their lives and how healthy those lives are, though this certainly isn't the case in many places as we can see that rates of obesity and other types of illnesses have risen in recent decades, but in theory, people want to to maximize these things, this isn't the case for all people, and nor should it be.
It's not necessarily the true virtue of human life to live a long and healthy life, and we think that people should be able to make the decision for themselves of whether or not they want this to be a part of their life.
And smoking does present real benefits to smokers, even if it harms their health.
It creates a way and an excuse to break away from normal day-to-day stresses of their life, it's something that chemically allows you to calm down, it allows you to feel a little bit more relaxed.
It's something that helps deal with the stresses of day-to-day life, which is why you see so many people in high stress situations turn to smoking tobacco.
And we think that there's no asymmetry of information when it comes to tobacco and when it comes to smoking.
It is highly publicized, it is common knowledge that smoking can reduce your life span, that smoking can lead to things like lung cancer and immense amounts of damage along the rest of your life.
It's not like smokers are smoking thinking that this is something that is good for them or thinking that this is something that is healthy for them, they're entirely aware of the fact that they are potentially costing years of their lives by smoking, but they make that decision for themselves, with full knowledge of the long-term ramifications, that they would prefer to smoke tobacco, they would prefer to smoke cigarettes cigarettes than not to do so.
And we think that is a legitimate choice to make for yourself because, fundamentally, this decision only impacts you in a direct way.
Certainly, your loved ones may be upset if you pass away early and, certainly, there are harms that could accrue in a tangential way, but as far as real harms, those are largely limited to the individual and, in ways in which it's not, such as issues that could arise from from secondhand smoke inhalation and those types of things, there are already laws that exist in plenty that prevent those types of harms from accruing.
Whether it's not being able to smoke around a child in the household, whether it's having to be a certain distance away from public spaces in order to smoke, there are many laws that already exist to prevent third-party harm, and for these reasons, we should not introduce a smoking ban.