Emergency contraception should not be subsidized.
So before we get into this debate we want to explain what we think our burden in this round is which is not to show that emergency contraception is bad but rather that subsidizing it is either unnecessary or unjustified or both.
So we're going to get into those arguments we're gonna show you why those are both the case.
So the first argument that the government side makes is that emergency contraception is a medical necessity for many women and it needs to be accessible.
So the first argument we would make and we don't want to kind of hang on this for awhile but we think it's arguable that it is not a necessity.
We think that there are many affordable birth control options that exist that aren't emergency contraception and most people don't need to use emergency contraception because they have other forms of birth control available to them.
We think that to call this a necessity is not necessarily the case but we don't want to harbor on that.
If it is an actual necessity though, then we think that it's something that insurance should be required to cover and rather than subsidize this one medical need, we think that it is it should fall under the larger branch of medical needs that insurance companies should provide for you.
So we think that given that people in developed countries have an expectation firstly, they have in actuality in many places health care and guaranteed guaranteed health care or guarantee insurance of some kind but we think that because health is entirely necessary in order for someone to enjoy any of their other rights or benefits of citizenship, we think that insurance should be something that all people are given.
So given that premise that insurance is something that is in many areas and absolutely should be in all areas something that a government ensures that its citizens either have or the government provides directly, if this is something that falls under that sort of premise, we think that subsidizing this thing just means that you fail to address that larger problem.
So we think that it's that this isn't something that should be subsidized if it is a medical need because if it is a medical need a subsidy is not something that solves that medical need.
It doesn't address the problem of insuring all people have their basic medical needs and this should be a separate discussion.
But the second argument that people make is that women should be able to control this massive thing about their bodies and sure we agree with this but see the larger point that we've already made is that this there's many other ways that women can have control over their reproductive organs and we think that if it is a medical necessity it should be covered in the status quo or by insurance and that's a change we're fine making but that doesn't require a subsidy.
But when you're talking about a subsidy what's important to keep in mind?
We think it's something that should be accessible to all people because all people paid in to the collective pool of taxation that is going to fund this subsidy because subsidies can either occur from giving direct monetary assistance in order for something to become accessible or by giving tax breaks but either way it's using the public pool of available funds in order to give something to a group of people and this certain subsidy would be exclusionary to a large portion of that pool of people.
It's something that firstly, one gender cannot use at all and so we would preference using fungible resources, which is essentially what tax dollars are, on other things, things that can be enjoyed by the collective.
So what have we shown you in this debate?
The first thing that we argued was that is that emergency contraceptive it may or may not be a necessity and if it is a necessity it's something that should be covered via insurance rather than through a subsidy and secondarily, we showed that a subsidy should not be used to fund something that is exclusionary to large portions of the population.
For these reasons, emergency contraception should not be subsidized.