Should end the use of agricultural subsidies.
In this round, we're gonna make three main arguments about why we think agricultural subsidies are both bad for developing nations and bad for consumers.
So, in its very basic nature, agricultural subsidies create inefficient markets.
And what we mean by this is that agricultural subsidies, especially those subsidies that occur in developed nations like the united states, and canada, and european nations, are subsidies that are going to to farms and to agricultural industries that do not need to be propped up.
These are industries that are simply not competitive on a global market.
For example, there are a number of a number of businesses, a number agricultural industries in south america, that are able to produce the same crops that are able to be produced in the united states for dramatically lower prices because they're growing in better environments, because they have lower labor costs, for a number of different reasons.
But when you give these subsidies to these industries what it means is that you're: one, suppressing those markets, and two, you're creating higher prices for those goods overall.
It means that even if you have a lower cost of those goods once you get to the store, you're still using taxpayer money to prop up industries in the united states that don't need to be propped up.
And a major part of why this is problematic is because there are other avenues for revenue that people in these industries can go to in the united states.
It's not like these farming industries are a major part of the US sector a major part of the US economy anymore, and there are other sectors that are growing more rapidly that we think that people should be funneled into, where labor is actually in demand in the united states, rather than propping up these these businesses in the united states and creating inefficient markets.
The second problem which I alluded to earlier is that you suppress rising economies, and the problem with this is that: one, it's illegal on the global scale.
There are treaties that exist to ensure free trade and to ensure that you have relatively open markets so that developing economies, when they have some sort of benefit, when they have some sort of comparative benefit in their market structure that allows them produce things at a lower cost and at a better quality than developed countries, that they're able to grow, and their markets are able to grow, their people are able to prosper.
But, these these developing countries are largely not able to fight against these agricultural subsidies.
And, in fact, one thing that happened somewhat recently is that as brazil got larger, as the economy of brazil got larger, brazil sued the united states in international courts for the subsidies that the united states was using for its agricultural industries, and in order to settle that suit, the united states is now funding brazilian agricultural agricultural industries and subsidizing their industries so that the united states can continue to subsidize the industry at home.
This means this shows the degree to which these subsidies are severely inhibiting these rising economies, severely inhibiting the ability for people in developing nations to grow, and we think that that is unjust given that those people do not have the opportunities that we have in developed nations.
And finally, we just think that this is a bad use of subsidy.
We think that when you're using a subsidy, it should be going to something for the general public, the general good of the public.
So it should either be giving something to the public that is able to be widely accessible, which this is not, it's only accessible to the very few people that are in the agricultural sector, or it should be doing something that creates a benefit to the wider public.
But, again, this isn't the case.
It's not creating any cheaper goods when you actually go to market, it's just ensuring that US goods are able to compete price-wise with much cheaper goods in a inefficient market system and an inflated market system.
And for these reasons, we should end the use of agricultural subsidies.