We should not abandon motorcycles.
First, before we get into the arguments of the round, we want to state what we think our burden is in this debate.
We think it's not to show that motorcycles are some sort of a net positive, any more than any other vehicle or object can be a net positive, but rather that reasonable people can choose to ride them and that there's no reason to abandon them en masse.
There's no reason for individuals that currently enjoy motorcycles to abandon them.
So the first argument that the government side makes is that motorcycles are incredibly dangerous and that this poses a problem for driver safety, and because of that, no one should be driving motorcycles.
So three responses to this: first, there are just many safety mechanisms in place to prevent an immense amount of harm being accrued.
You have different safety gear that riders can wear.
You have different regulations for where you can ride a motorcycle.
And secondly, experienced riders don't have a much higher risk of an accident than in a traditional automobile.
Your likelihood of having an accident is probably about as equal if you're in a motorcycle as if you're in a car.
You might have less protection around you if you're on a motorcycle but there's still, in the united states and around the developed world, an incredibly high risk of motor vehicle accidents every time someone gets on the road, yet we wouldn't say that people should abandon cars in favor of having everyone take public transportation all the time.
And for that same reason, we think that if people have a preference for motorcycles, there are ways that they can ensure their safety if they want it.
But more importantly, we think that they're not dramatically more unsafe for the experienced driver the the experienced motorcyclist, I should say, than than any other form of personal transportation.
And finally, we just think that even if motorcycles are incredibly dangerous, there are lots of things that are incredible dangerous that we allow people to do and that we even encourage people to do, because sometimes taking on a risk is fun, and it's exhilarating, and it is just a viscerally enjoyable experience.
And we think that people can make the choice to take this risk for themselves and because of that, danger is not enough to just abandon motorcycles.
The second argument that the government side makes is that motorcycles are associated with gang culture, specifically biker gangs, and because of that, we think that people should shift away to safer safer alternative vehicles and that we should not have motorcycles be prevalent.
So, first, we think that biker culture doesn't necessarily equal gang violence, like certainly there are biker gangs, but there's also many, many more people that ride motorcycles that aren't in these gangs.
And and, sure, there are some biker gangs, but there's just tons of people that just enjoy the freedom of riding a motorcycle, and that's totally fine.
But more importantly, we think that symbolic resonance is not a sufficient reason for someone not to use something that they find to be personally valuable, especially if they don't buy into the symbolic resonance.
One example of this is something like red bandannas, which are an actual symbol for some gangs, but we don't abandon those.
We don't say, " oh, people shouldn't have red bandannas that they to wear."
People can wear those if they want and the symbolic resonance that it has for gang members is isolated there, but for the vast majority of people, they don't see this and think of gang affiliation.
And the same goes for motorcycles.
For the vast majority of people, you don't see a motorcycle or someone riding a motorcycle and immediately think, " oh, this person is in a gang. "
Symbolic resonance is not an intrinsic part of motorcycles and should not drive their abandonment in any meaningful way.
What we've shown you is that, first, motorcycles are an entirely safe way of having some sort of excitement in someone's life relative and in a comparative sense to other types of motor vehicles, and we've shown you that there's no reason for those that enjoy motorcycles that they shouldn't be able to continue to do that.
For these reasons, we should not abandon motorcycles.