Should adopt blasphemy laws.
So in this round we're gonna say that as a model for this debate that we should have strong laws against religious based libel.
So there are already laws that exist regarding liable.
We would strengthen those laws when it comes to libel against religious groups, against people because of their religion.
In addition, we think that you would expand the scope under which libel can be applied from just from things like journalists to just general people making libelous comments on things such a social media.
So expanding the scope of libel as well as strengthening the punishment.
Few reasons why we think this should be the case.
The first is the personal nature of religion.
As opposed to many other qualities that a person takes on, religion is a quality that is incredibly personal as in terms of beliefs.
While there are other inalienable qualities like someone's race or their gender that is not chosen in such a way as religion is, though for many people religion is something that they are born into rather than something they choose, but even even in compared to things other personal beliefs that we take on that we choose religion is incredibly personal because it doesn't just guide our way of viewing one particular sphere of our lives but rather as a moral compass by which we we point the direction of all of our actions.
Your belief in a higher deity in the moral the moral system that comes with that deity is a way that you view that you should live your life and is something that you believe is the moral way to live and so insulting a religion in a libelous way and degrading a religion in a libelous way is something that degrades not only individuals that are a part of that religion, but the very moral fabric by which they live their lives and again attacks on a religion are attacks on groups of people.
So in much the same way that we have hate crimes laws because if you burn a cross in a black person's yard in the united states it's not just an attack on that person it's an attack on the entire group of people.
It's meant to make that group of people feel lesser, in the case in that example feel fear, but in other ways to degrade that group of people, to belittle them, to make them feel like they're not someone to be accepted within society.
For example, when people make libelous claims about muslims in the united states it's not just insulting their moral beliefs but it's also it's also insinuating certain things that are made are meant to make them feel excluded from larger american society society and thirdly you can thirdly, we think of these laws are justified because you're still allowing people to privately believe what they want.
If you want to believe that muslims are all a certain stereotype in that certain rumors you've heard or certain certain conspiracy theories that you've heard about them as a group are correct, you've the right to believe those things.
But once you go and put that put that belief into the public sphere and in which you either publish it somewhere or you speak it in a public space, these are things that then start to exclude those within society rather than just being your expression of your thoughts.
It's your expression of your thoughts to the degradation of other people's ability to live freely and to live a satisfied and a comfortable life and finally, you can still criticize religion as a concept.
We're not saying that religion should be above all criticism but we're saying that when your criticism is based on lies, when your criticism is based on stereotyping or deceit, we think that that criticism is no longer valid and at that point it shouldn't be protected as free speech.
Once you're attacking a group of people and lying about an organization and a group of people, we think that that becomes an attack again as we've stated on their moral standing.
It becomes an attack on their way of life, a way of excluding them and meaningfully impacts their ability to express their freedoms as protected as citizens within our country and for these reasons, we should adopt blasphemy laws.