The american jobs act brought more harm than good.
In this debate, we're gonna start by talking about the environment that led to the american jobs act, and the actual impact that had once it was enacted, and why these things brought more harm than good.
So firstly, the background.
The background that is important to recognize is that, this is a very similar bill to the stimulus package that was passed immediately after obama came into came into office in two thousand and eight following the great recession.
What's important to recognize is that that stimulus package was designed to increase job growth, it was increased to dig the dig the economy out of the recession that it passed by putting more people to work, by giving tax cuts to businesses to hire more people, and was paid for largely by taxes on the wealthy.
And following the stimulus package, economy improved to some degree, but it simply didn't have a dramatic impact on the jobs growth that it was meant to target.
And this bill, largely does similar things.
It ensures that tax cuts are given to certain areas to ensure that there's an incentive to hire people who have been unemployed for long periods of time, there's a stimulus package that directly is intended to put more people back to work.
The problem with this is that the government spending has a negligible impact on long run economic trends.
An example of this is that if the market doesn't have available jobs or if there's very high unemployment and the government starts to put out jobs to do a particular service, if it wasn't doing that service already, if it's creating jobs, that means that it's impeding the sectors of other businesses, which means the net job creation is much lower than if the private sector had grown naturally or if there'd been some sort of innovation that gave rise to other jobs that didn't compete with those sectors.
This also tends to drive up wages which makes the economy makes the market for labor much more expensive and in times when there's already high unemployment, it makes it unpopular to hire are those people.
Now we recognize that job growth has occurred after the american jobs act was passed or portions of it were passed.
But we don't think that this is necessarily a correlation.
We think that that this isn't necessarily due to causation.
We think it's simply a correlation.
The economy was already booming, it had it had comes out of the recession once the act had been passed, and we don't think that this is the crucial catalyst that led to the job growth we're seeing today, but rather that the steady the steady recovery that occurred after the recession is what actually bred the job growth and the environment for employment that we see today.
So, why do we think that given that, that more harm than good has been done?
Recognize that there are tradeoffs that come with massive government spending.
Firstly, what occurs is that higher taxes on individual people such as the very wealthy and corporations, lead to those corporations and people being less likely to hire others because they've been caught those taxes cut into their own profits and they don't want to see a decrease there.
So companies are less likely to put out new job offers which again decreases the whole goal of this bill when you have taxes on very wealthy corporations and very wealthy people.
Secondly, it puts a deficit on our budget which mortgages our future away.
What this means is that when the united states inevitably runs into more economic trouble, there's less trust in US credit because we already have a deficit that exists, and because we've already borrowed money in order to pay for things when times, admittedly weren't all that awful.
There was slow job growth but the economy had been steady, the economy had not fallen to collapse which was the fear immediately after the great recession, and because of this, it means that we took this money on in a time when we didn't necessarily need it and in the future it's going to make some money much more expensive to borrow, which puts more of burden on people in hard economic times, and ultimately does things like raise taxes on individuals across the board.
Given that this is the case we don't think that deficit spending that allowed the american jobs out to be passed was worthwhile given the negligible impact it ended up having on jobs growth.
And because of all of this, we believe that the american jobs act brought more harm than good.