Prenatal diagnosis brings more good than harm.
What prenatal diagnosis allows individuals to do with their caregivers, with their doctors is to see what what is happening with the fetus.
So this means being able to screen not just the gender of the child but also to screen for genetic defects, for different illnesses that may arise during pregnancy, to get a better understanding of the health of the child.
In this regard, we think that prenatal diagnosis does demonstrably more good than harm.
So firstly, we're gonna talk about preparedness for parents and why that's so crucial, and secondly, whe're gonna talk about why information is always a net good.
So firstly, on preparation.
We think that there are two instances in which this can help avoid a tremendous amount of pain and difficulty both for parents and possibly for children.
Firstly, in instances when children have rare genetic disorders that them to be stillborn or cause them to be terminally ill immediately after birth, we think that this gives the option for women to know that information in advance and to make a decision about whether or not she wants to choose to carry that child to birth or to term.
Now we think that that choice is entirely legitimate to make, but we think that oftentimes women we think that oftentimes when children are born and are born terminal, are born stillborn, are are not able to live past their birth, we think that this is incredibly scarring for women to put your body through nine months of intense labor, pain and hardship, only to have this child that you have already grown attached to die in your own arms.
We think this is a tremendous psychological and emotional harm that happens to women and to and to fathers.
And we think that parents should be able to avoid this hardship.
In instances in which children are going to be stillborn, are not going to be able to live because of their genetic illnesses what have you, we don't think that parents should be forced to carry those children to term and only deal with the consequences.
Now in the vast majority of instances this isn't the case though.
In the vast majority of instances in which genetic illnesses or defects are detected, children are not going to die after birth, and we think those are the instances that are most important.
Cause we think that, information can only allow parents to make better decisions for their children.
Recognize that a child that is that's born with a genetic disorder, is going to face special challenges in their life.
They're going to need special assistance to make sure that they can be as successful as possible.
They need to get different educational care they need different early childhood care and different attention, different and parents simply don't know all this information.
The average person doesn't know what is required to take care of a child with down syndrome or a child with autism.
And given that this is the case, we think that when you allow parents to have this information ahead of time, they're going to be able to do research on this on this they're going to be able to make preparations whether they need to do certain things to their house to make it safe, whether or not they need to find certain doctors ahead of time to make sure that their child will be born and will be healthy and safe moving forward, all these things are considerations that the average parent won't need to won't need to deal with, but which is crucial for a parent that is having a child that has some sort of illness that needs to be dealt with.
We think that it's good both for the parents and for the child to know this information ahead of time, because planning allows for a smooth start to life for that child immediately, it doesn't mean that there needs to be some sort of in between time in which the child is not receiving the care that it needs, and secondly, it allows parents to mentally prepare for the difference between raising for the differences that they will face and the challenges, the unique challenges they will face in raising a child that has special needs.
We think that this isn't a challenge that can't be overcome, we think hundreds and thousands of brave parents and really good parents do this all the time, but without that mental preparation it become so much more difficult to deal with what you need to do moving forward, and giving that mental preparation and information is crucial in both instances in which it may be needed.
And because of that, we think prenatal diagnosis brings more good than harm.