We should not abolish congressional earmarks.
I want to start by differentiating what we view congressional earmarks to be from how the proposition team does in their first speech, because we think that it is somewhat off base.
We don't think that earmarks are, as they say, largely a system of blackmail by which small states are able to hold larger states hostage or in a sense in which people can slap on just rejoinders to bills willy nilly and ensure that bills will fail.
We don't think that this is the case.
In the status quo, when people propose bills, earmarks and amendments can be added to those bills if they are friendly to the person proposing the bill.
Which means that you can't just add an earmark or add an amendment to a bill after the fact in order to take a bill down that you disagree with, because the people that put the bill forward are able to ensure that those amendments are not added to the bill, which means that in the status quo it's largely not the case that these are added to tank a bill in particular unless one of the co-sponsors of the bill, or the sponsor of the bill agrees to have the earmock the earmark ajoined to it.
And we don't think that this is just a sense of small states getting too much from the federal government.
We think that this is a larger way in which the federal government in the united states work the way that federal congressional spending is directed, regardless of earmarks, tends to favor smaller states or rather poorer states that don't spend as much money and don't send as much money to the federal government because these are states whose economies are not doing as well as larger states, more industrialized or urban states that are able to send as much money, that have higher wages and there's a discrepancy in wages between the country, which is the larger region why small states get too much money.
So we don't think it's an issue in earmarks.
Rather we think that earmarks are a necessary part of how congress functions and without them we think that congress would largely not be able to run successfully or smoothly.
Recognize that federal government business has dramatic impacts on very localized issues, especially at the house level.
What this means in real terms is that people propose earmarks and propose budgetary amendments to bills in order to get very small projects done and while the proposition team counts this as something that people do simply to please their local voters, we think that these are often incredibly important.
We think that things like ten thousand dollars for a local parks project or a hundred thousand dollars for a county sewage system or things like this, federal money that is important and does real good in people's lives, we think that in order to get these types of things added to bills you need to have this earmark system because otherwise you would need to have debate over almost every single one of these small projects.
We think that given the large scope of these projects, or the large breadth of these projects, we think that this simply isn't a necessary er is not a useful part of the congress' time.
We think that having debate about local issues at the federal level is unnecessary and we think that given the small amount that these er even though these earmarks add to a large amount of money at the end of the day, we think that the per like per district amount that these earmarks amount to is largely negligible when compared to the larger federal budget, we think that these earmarks end up having real good, on the local level.
And we think that that's part of the purpose of what people were sent or what representatives were sent to the house of representatives to do.
It's to serve very localized congressional regions.
And given this is the case, we think it better fulfills the purpose of congress, to have an earmark process in which small deals and small additions can be added to these bills in order to for the large majority of bills ensure that local issues can be dealt with and ensure that money is given back to localities that could desperately use it.
Given that this is the case, we think that in a comparative world the same type of budgetary actions are going to be taken but they're going to be taken in a much more diverse series of bills which we think will ultimately ensure that with the slow pace of congress in the status quo, which isn't likely to change, it's only going to make it so that less gets done in congress and fewer people are able to be helped, and because of that we think that we should not abolish congressional earmarks.