Your own schooling will bring more harm than it will bring good.
While education reformers will argue that having a large gap in the middle of the school year and having a three months summer vacation makes it harder to retain knowledge and makes it more difficult to actually learn, we think that that while there are workarounds for that and there are ways to improve off of that, there are external benefits that having the system that we currently do, with a long break in the middle of the year, that would massively outweigh the benefits that reformers say will come.
So what are these benefits?
We're going to talk about two big things.
We're gonna talk about the economic benefit of having a summer vacation, and we're gonna talk about the benefit to children of having a period in which they can relax and they can mentally unwind and they think and they can explore other options that are available to them.
So firstly, the economic benefit.
While it may seem like a secondary thing, tourism industries largely depend on the ability for people to go on family vacations in the middle of summer, to bring their children and to bring their families and go somewhere for one, two, three weeks, however long it might be, and these long breaks that school vacations provide are a great time and a boom to tourist industries, especially in areas that are not necessarily tropical during the winter and places where people can't go during other times of the year.
Why is this important?
Because in the status quo, tourism industries and areas that rely on tourism industries don't just use this industry as an additional amount of money that they can put into taxpayers' coffers and that they can try and give to service sector places.
These are often areas where tourism is the main focal point of the economy.
Places like tropical islands, places like greece, in the status quo, where there is a massive hindrance to the economy because of the crisis that occurred there, tourism is a great way and a major way in which they're trying to fight out from that from that economic depression that's currently going on.
When you take away the major economic livelihood from people, we think that there are massive detriments and we think that year-round schooling is likely to do this, because it doesn't provide the same sort of block time that parents can pull their children out of school, and they're usually very unwilling to pull their children out of school during the school year and if they are, it'll be for lower periods of time.
We think that this needs to be considered and that, yes, you might get slightly better education if you have a year-round program, but there are just drastic impacts on the global economy and global tourism that we think outweigh the possible benefits that could have that people could have here.
But there's also a benefit to students in having a not-year-round system.
First, recognize that it's incredibly difficult to recruit teachers in the status quo because these are often low-paying and less respected jobs than otherwise could happen for college graduates, and given that this is the case, we think that you actually get better teachers when you have things that you can offer them, like a massive break where they can spend time with her family in the middle of the year, and they can take a summer vacation just like students can.
But secondly, we think it's really good for students to be able to have this break.
The reason for this is that school, especially later stages of education, like high school, can be incredibly demanding on a student because of the demands to get into higher education, so the requirements to explore many different extracurriculars but also keep grades high, these are things that can put an immense amount of stress on students, and we think that having a break in the middle of the year is something that allows students to unwind and is good for their mental health.
The ability to ignore school for a little bit and to explore other options that are available to them, to explore different fields, to take time to just do a creative field, or to read or to breathe.
All this is necessary in order for students to function well during the school year.
The ability for students to have this thing that they can do at the end of the year, this goal, this light at the end of the tunnel where they can stop for a little while, is a great motivating force and allows students to feel like they're not just in this perpetual cycle of not being educated or being forced to be educated or going to this place where they don't like to go and this in constant cycle of coming to work and work and work.
When you give a break period that's long and extensive, like the summer break we have, now rather than making sure that the child's life is perpetually involved in the school system, you get better students, better teachers, and you also get economic benefits from tourism and because of that, even though there might be benefits to the education system itself, we think that year-round schooling will do more harm than it will good.