The american jobs act brought more good than harm.
What the american jobs act was was a bill passed under the obama presidency that did a few things during a time of economic stagnation.
One, it increases the time that people could stay on unemployment insurance so it allowed for a broader social safety net to be cast for individuals, two, it gave tax incentives for businesses to hire individuals who had been unemployed for a long period of time, including those who had lost their unemployment benefits, and three, it created taxes on the wealthiest corporations and people to ensure that all these systems could be paid for.
Thus, it created very little gain to the deficit.
So, with that in mind, we're gonna talk about why this was firstly, obviously good for economic and job growth, secondly, fair, and third, why any sort of deficit increase simply doesn't matter.
So first thing on job growth.
The reason that this had occurred is because during the first stimulus bill in two thousand nine in which president obama came into office, the stimulus bill by most economists, most economists experts would agree was not large enough.
The recession had been too great, stagnation had been too great, and the spending that the government should have done at that time should have been greater.
This compensated for that.
At the time, unemployment had stalled at around the same level for a few months, and the growth rates prior to that had not been so drastic, and what we see now is that job growth has grown tremendously.
That we're at an unemployment rate that's around the natural rate of unemployment around forty five percent, and even if you take into account people that have stopped looking for jobs, those numbers are still much better than they were prior to the passing of this bill.
But more importantly, what this bill also allowed to have happen, was that when the market reaches full employment or comes close to full employment, it has led to median incomes rising, wages rising for the first time in nearly a decade.
American workers of the middle class are for the first time since the recession finding wages go up.
Because when the economy is at full employment, labor becomes, the demand for labor becomes greater, people aren't able to hire as freely and thus they need to raise wages in order to attract a better workforce and this is what the bill also allowed to have happen.
And if the bill didn't pass, if unemployment benefits had remained, it would have been much more easy for people to offer lower wages, take people who are desperate into work but rather this created a larger safety net and allowed for more steady and also more progressive growth in the long run.
Secondly, on fans.
We think that prior to the introduction of this bill that the taxation level and even still the taxation level on the wealthiest in society is too low.
Recognize that the recession that caused these lack of jobs was almost entirely due to bad loaning practices of banks and to an economic system that was betting against the lower class.
Given that this is the case, and that these people are able to in large part profit from the bailouts of the past and profit from society even without taking the bailout into consideration more than anyone else, we think that it is only just that these people be forced to pay for the harms that occurred in the past and that also made it possible for us to take on more unemployment benefits to give more benefits to people that actually needed help at the time rather than millionaires and billionaires who simply were paying a few more percentage points in their income tax.
Thirdly, very quickly, on deficit.
Given that the united states has an obscenely good credit history, that it is one of the world's largest economies, one of the world's largest trade partners and one of the most influential superpowers on the planet, we don't think that deficit actually matters, at least not in this context.
The deficit was not raised an incredible amount, our deficit percentage or the debt to GDP ratio, didn't go up by a significant amount due to this bill and in the long run if we need more credit we're going to be able to get it anyway, but this was a time in which people were really suffering.
Unemployment benefits had dried up, people weren't able to find jobs, and this bill made substantial gains in all of those areas.
And for those reasons, the american jobs act brought more good than harm.