We should legalize doping in sport.
We think that in the status quo, doping in sports is something that is a very common occurrence and that it's something that if you bring it into the light, if you allow it to be legally done, you're less likely to get a stigma created around it, you're less likely to get people to turn away from the sport, and you're more likely to get entertaining things for fans.
So when we say we would legalize doping, steroid use, different types of painkillers, all these things, they're fine.
Maybe you would still prohibit certain types of drugs but we think, in most instances, whatever athletes want to put into their body, that's their prerogative.
Okay, so why should we do this?
First, recognize that doping is just one of many enhancements that modern athletes have.
So it's not like this is nineteen twenty in which nutrition and chemistry and biology aren't so dramatically advanced and technology that doping is the only meaningful way for people to get an edge in a sport other than their, you know, innate athletic ability.
We think that in the status quo, there are a number of advanced dieticians, nutritionists, technology, such as bats that let you hit a ball further, such as helmets that make it less likely that you're going to get a a concussion, different shoes that let you jump faster and run harder, and all the things that people are able to have at their disposal during the training process that make their body more physically fit than it otherwise would have been without the aid of technology, and a number of therapies and rehabs.
None of these things are natural.
So none of these things provide the like innate athletic nature of the individual to come out.
They give enhancement to that person beyond what is biologically capable.
What this means is that we still we allow people to go beyond their natural capabilities all the time in sport, we just don't see it and they're not penalized for it.
We think that if you take away the penalty for doping, it would turn into much like these other things.
Like, if you get a steroid injection for a game, it'd be similar to getting some sort of injection for your rehab for allowing you to get back on the court, back on the field faster.
We think that these things are good in that it allows people to gain more from the sport.
We think that, furthermore, doping by itself just doesn't create a good athlete.
You still need technique, hours of training and hard work.
So, for example, just because barry bonds was able to take steroids, it doesn't mean that taking steroids allowed him to bat three fifty.
It doesn't mean that he was able to make better contact with a baseball, it just means that he was able to hit it a little bit further.
Oftentimes, people that become immensely good athletes, great athletes, because of doping were already very good athletes before they took steroids.
It just gives them a small edge.
We think that the stigma and the shadow of this doping the stigma in the status quo creates a shadow of doping over sports.
We think bans are shown to be ineffective time and time again when people continued to test positive, and people and the problem with this is that people become suspects, even without positive tests.
So people are stigmatized even if they don't dope when they're doing their sports, even if they aren't doping in their sport.
Which means that the penalty the the criminalization of doping in sport in the status quo only makes it more likely that people are stigmatized for these things, that there's only a greater shadow over a sport.
And given that, given that doping, as I've explained, is not meaningfully different from other types of biological or technological aids, we think you gains it removes the specter from doping.
We think you get simply a better product for the audience if people are running faster, hitting balls farther, doing these types of things better, that once you remove the stigma around it, once it is a legal thing to do, and once it's become normalized within the audience, you're more likely to put a product on the field or on the pitcher, whatever, that is better for the audience, that's going to bring more money in for the sport, and that is still going to require that individuals put in immense amounts of time training and forming their bodies.
It's not simply a fast track to success if you dope.
It gives you a little bit of an edge, but so do many other things that professional athletes have at their disposal.
Doping isn't meaningfully different, and for these reasons, we should legalize doping in sport.