Not legalize doping in sport.
So today we have two main arguments for you.
The first is that to do so would be bad for athletes, and the second is that to do so would be bad for sports.
So firstly, on athletes.
What's important to recognize about doping is that while there are potential benefits on the field and in sports, doping comes with immense potential risks for the people that choose to take steroids.
Some of these risks include hormonal irregularities that can lead to things such as impotency in men and hormonal and testosterone imbalances in both men and women, which can lead to a whole bunch of irregularities, both physically and emotionally.
Mentally, use of doping can induce things such as rage, aggression, mania, and can lead to mood swings and immensely involuntarily emotional swings in someone that chooses to dope.
Especially when you're coming off of steroids and you're trying to come back to a norm, your body sometimes has difficulty adjusting.
Doping has a propensity to lead to immense heart risk.
This can lead to things such as long-term risks of heart attack and other types of heart problems in those that use steroids.
And finally, there's an increased risk of infection when using steroids.
All of these things are important to recognize because when you legalize doping in sport, you create a prisoner's dilemma.
Because if you were to legalize doping in sport, it creates an environment in which people that choose to dope are likely those that are going to perform better or at least, en masse, those that choose to dope will do better than those that choose not to dope.
And in order for in a competitive market, in a competitive market where people are looking for more and more salary, for better and better contracts, we think it leads to an immense amount of coercive pressure on athletes to dope in order to maintain their competitive balance with the rest of the people in their sport, and it forces people to putting things into their body, to injecting themselves with steroids and other types of problematic pharmaceuticals that can lead to these long-term health risks.
We don't think that athletes want this, and we don't think that we should force them into this coercive situation.
The second is we think that doping is bad for sport generally.
So firstly, we think that when it comes to people that care about sports, that enjoy sports, they enjoy it for the idea that there's some sort of natural peak of human physicality associated with sport, that those that are at the top level of athletics are those that worked hard.
And there's a narrative that drives sports that includes this idea that you worked hard, that you put in training, that you practiced and that you naturally used your physical gifts to get to the place where you are, and doping undermines that narrative that is associated with sports.
We also think that, generally, there's an immense stigma, especially after like things like the steroid era in baseball and the the harsh punishments for doping on the international stage, whether it be in the olympics or international tennis, all types of spheres of athletics.
We think that a stigma has been created over the past few decades and because of this, we think if you legalize doping in sport, it'll drive fans away from the sport, at least comparatively more than if you were to choose to take no action.
Because even if there's this kind of cloud of steroids and cloud of doping over sport as it exists, if you accept this type of practice, if you accept doping as part of your sport, it becomes institutionalized, and people choose to turn against the institution.
When fans turned against the sport, this means there's less money for ownership, there's less money for athletes, there's less money to go around altogether, and it undermines the purpose of sport itself that brings people together, that builds communities, and that creates this athletic competition that people thrive on and that people enjoy and get entertainment from.
Because we think it's bad for athletes and because it's bad for the spirit of sport and athletics itself, we should not legalize doping in sport.