We should further exploit wind power.
What we mean by furthering the exploiting wind power is firstly, we think we should have government subsidize the production and signs behind developing the technologies for wind power.
Secondly, we would provide incentives for the average corporation or the average person to invest in wind power, to get power through wind power corporations and thirdly, we would like to have a world in which the norm is that in which wind power is more prominent.
So we don't we're not gonna be talking specifically about policy but generally about the benefits of wind power in a comparative sense with fossil fuels and other types of clean energy.
So firstly, we think in any sort of debate about clean energy the most important thing at stake is global warming.
Recognize that we are at a point in which we've done so much damage to our environment through the industrialization of the globe, that we are a tipping point where global temperatures will rise by two to four degrees celsius annually over the course of over the course of several hundred of the course about a hundred years in a way that will cause global global ice caps to melt, will cause higher sea temperatures which will lead to increased natural disasters and increased veracity of those natural disasters such as more hurricanes, stronger hurricanes, things like that.
It leads to droughts which make people, especially those that are the most vulnerable with least food security, incredibly likely to starve because they simply cannot continue to have the same planting patterns that they have had for hundreds of years but rather they have to develop entirely new planting patterns or the rain simply will not come in the way it needs to for these people to be fed and we're also at a point at which it's almost going to be irreversible soon.
Scientists say that if we don't have drastic change in the next five years in the very near future we will be at a point in which all the changes because of the greenhouse effect and all the changes that have been caused by trapping more carbon dioxide and more heat our atmosphere, if we don't do something now we are going to be at a point which the chain reactions of our actions in the last hundred years are not going to be reversed and at the and at that that point we're creating harm not just for ourselves but for our children, our grandchildren, the people that will have no choice about coming into this world but through our own desires will come into existence, through our own choices, and we are dooming them into a world in which they will have to lead harder lives in which the globe will not be livable at the same way that it is now, in which we will ruin the natural environment that our ancestors for hundreds of years passed down on to us and allowed us to live and thrive.
We think we have an obligation to those people to change the way that we are behaving now.
So with all that in mind, why wind power?
Well firstly, wind power is clean and it is renewable.
You can't run out of the wind from having things like wind farms in the middle of the sea in which wind production is pretty much constant and also there's no outlying negative harms.
Your not having any sort of a mission or pollution that comes from this which means wind power is almost entirely a clean energy.
We also think that it's at a point in which the costs are still higher than fossil fuels and so things like further exploiting it are likely to drive down those cost.
Things like subsidizing the use and production of technologies are likely to drive down the costs of wind power in the future.
We also think that compared to other clean energy resources wind power is more versatile than things like solar because it's not there's no time of day when wind power simply isn't going to work and it's more versatile than things like nuclear because it simply safer and we have a better understanding of how it can be used and how it can be exploited.
So because global warming is so crucial and wind power as a common sense solution is a clean energy that will be useful, we think we should further exploit wind power.