We should abolish intellectual property rights.
What we think this looks like in practice is removing the ability for people to patent things, the ability for people to take ownership over things like entertainment media that is created other types of intellectual property, anything that is the creation of the mind or anything that has been derived from an idea that you had.
We don't think that people should have ownership over these things.
So firstly, why do we think that these ideas cannot be owned in a very fundamental manner?
We think that all ideas are the result of human history.
That all creation and all things that are created have only been able to be derived because of human advancement.
The ability for you to create some new technology in the present relies on centuries of societal, social, and economic as well as scientific progress that made modern technology and modern creation possible.
It also all ideas that all people have rely on educational system that's created by the society they find themselves in, one that educates them and provides them with the tools that allow them to treat these types of things, to create what is currently intellectual property.
We also think that many of these things come over the course of collaboration, tacit collaboration and direct collaboration and therefore we don't think that it is fair to give any one person ownership because all ideas are grown out of the community.
No person independently created any of their intellectual property.
We don't think that it is proper like property that you can own physical property that people should have ownership over these things because they were spawn not by a market but by society and by people.
So given that we think it is principally more just that intellectual property rights be abolished and that these things are principally unjustified.
What do we think are three tangible gains from abolishing intellectual property rights?
The first is increased innovation and second followed closely is increased knowledge.
They go hand in hand.
When you don't have intellectual property rights it means that ownership of ideas, things like scientific discoveries, things like technological innovations, these types of things aren't protected by IP laws which means the information about them is much more freely available.
This means that people are more capable of learning about these types of things and they're more capable of incorporating different ideas into their own technology, into their own creations, into their own growth.
What do we think this means?
We think it means that you get longer and broader innovation in the long term.
In the short term, we think that people are more likely to collaborate.
People are less likely to be secretive about ideas which means we think that we can falsify like bad ideas quickly.
We think that technology is more efficient right off the start because we think that people are less likely or less incentivized to quickly bring ideas to market so that they can patent use types of things and we think that long term you get a society that has greater innovation because you're more able to synthesize ideas that that otherwise would've been blocked by intellectual property protection.
So the second big gain that we think you get from abolishing intellectual property rights is breaking down unfair monopolies.
So a major issue on which this exists is pharmaceuticals.
In the status quo, pharmaceutical companies are able to bring pills to market and charge exorbitant prices because they have long term control over the pharmaceutical because you can't make any sort of copy of that pharmaceutical for twenty years after its been patented.
The problem with this is that in this market and in many other markets this massively drives up consumer prices because it creates overt monopolies.
If you abolish intellectual property rights and you allow for fair competition to take place in the market in which you don't just get the first movers advantage by having the idea first, or finishing the technology first, but rather you're forced to compete with every other entity in the market that is capable of producing these things.
We think you get these types of material products on a better scale.
We think you get them cheaper and you get a more efficiently than before because we think intellectual property is principally unjust and there are massive social gains from abolishing it.
We should abolish intellectual property rights.