We should abolish congressional earmarks.
In the status quo, congress people are able to add amendments and other provisions to larger spending bills that are unrelated to the bills that exist that are that allow for spending to be done on very specified programs.
So, most federal government spending comes in the form of block grants where individual locales are able to make decisions about how they're going to spend the money, but congressional earmarks allow for smaller but more specified money to go to different regions and what this usually looks like is congress people getting small infrastructure development and business projects for their region for their specific community in particular so they can go home and say to their constituents, look at what I did, give them something tangible to look at.
So we think congressional earmarks fall directly counter to the purpose of the federal government and are simply undemocratic.
So firstly, why they're undemocratic.
Let's look at the process in which earmarks are passed.
Earmarks are attachments to bills that get the brunt the full brunt of focus by individuals, by politicians, by the media, during our political discourse.
We think that what this means is that these earmarks which, over the course of an entire year spending in fiscal bills add up to a substantial amount of money, never get the scrutiny that the larger bill will receive, and we think that this is crucial.
We think that, this money comes from taxpayers that the federal government is spending the country's money on very localized projects, and if it's going to try and do something that has a localized effect, we think that should be facing more scrutiny than the average bill, that it should have to pass the muster of a higher level of scrutiny to show that it is a necessary and sufficient project that the money is being used most efficaciously and most efficiently in these respects.
Because if it's not, and you're spending money on individuals at a very localized level, you're essentially taking money from other people for the gain of a very small minority, and you're doing it in a way that doesn't particularly help people.
So given that the scrutiny doesn't exist, we think this falls antithetical to what the government's supposed to do.
It doesn't allow for political discourse to occur, it doesn't allow for individuals who are elected to make to have a discourse about whether or not this is going to be something that we accept, whether or not each individual earmark is going to be acceptable, and we think it ultimately leads to worst congresspeople.
When people are able to simply put an earmark in for a local project and report back to their districts and say look at what I did for you and not have to deal with what their record is on any number of other issues, we think what this leads to is people get distracted from what the real issues are at stake, especially at the federal level.
Localized projects can be done and funded at state level, they can be funded through block grants, there are ways to get this work done without using earmarks.
But using earmarks is, we think, a way, a means of distraction from important political discourse, and a means of distraction for the constituents.
Secondly, on why we think this is fundamentally bad government.
So, the federal government as I've already pointed out draws its money from a number of people.
We don't think it's the job of the federal government to dictate localized projects.
We don't think the federal government has, one, a good understanding of what localized regions need, because they simply do not live in those regions, they don't know what the infrastructure is like, they're not familiar with the economics of these regions, while congress people may be, congresspeople as unilateral decision makers shouldn't be choosing how thousands millions of dollars are going to be spent in the first place.
We think that it's best left for local governments to make local decisions, that it's best left in the most knowledgeable hands to make these decisions, and for funding to come in other forms.
We don't think that earmarks are necessary to a well functioning federal government, and we think they in fact detract from how well our government is able to function.
And because of this, we should abolish congressional earmarks.