Prenatal diagnosis brings more harm than good.
Prenatal diagnosis in the status quo is used to understand a few things.
First it can test for genetic diseases before someone's born, it can be it can be used to test whether or not there will be a birth defect that a child will have, it can also be used to test the gender of the child before the child is born, and to get certain information about the child's biology before they're born.
So we think that on balance this practice brings more harm it will bring more harm than good for a few reasons.
Firstly we think it increases stigmatization of disease.
We think that when individuals are able to test for these problems that a child may have, to test for some sort of genomic problem that may lead to the child having a disability in the future people are overwhelmingly more likely to use that.
When the screening process itself becomes more popularized, when it becomes standardized to check to see if a child is ill or not ill, if there is some sort of disorder that they suffer from, we think that this creates an idea of a stigma around them.
If there's a norm of checking to see if something exists, in order to maybe prevent it or plan for it, we think that this creates the idea that what's coming into existence, the life that exists, the life of a person that's living with a physical or mental or genomic illness, become stigmatized in and of itself.
We think the normalization of this happens it sends a signal to those that are born in our society that have these type of genetic disorders, that have these problems we don't think that these lives are any less full then the lives of the individuals that are born without these genetic disorders and built and born without these types of difficulties that these face.
These people are still able to experience joy and interact with others and have a full human experience that any other person is able to have.
And just because they face different challenges in their life and they face different struggles that they're going to face from other individuals.
This doesn't mean that their life is not just as valid or that there's anything wrong with the life that they face.
It's simply a different type of life.
Given that this is the case, we don't think that you should pervade this stigma because it only makes the struggles that they face all that much more difficult when they know that there is a stigma against that struggle, a stigma against that idea and we think it ultimately leads to, in certain cases, abortion or the abandonment of these childs.
The fear of these children that only makes it harder for these children when they grow up or could lead to their abortion which we think is problematic.
Thats what we're going to talk about secondly.
The rise in things like genetic abortions because of genetic disorders or because of sex selective abortions like in places where there are certain patriarchal societies in which it's much more desired amongst parents that they have a male child.
We think that in these places sex selective abortion is on the rise and we think that people are likely to choose to abort children because of genetic disorder they have.
Now while we have no principle to put opposition to abortion and a woman's able ability to end end a pregnancy if they see fit, we think when you do it in a discriminatory manner, when you want to have a child and then you say there is something about this child that I don't approve of, whether it's their gender or genetic disorder they have, we think that aborting for that reason, for discriminatory and not for a reason of say the fact that you don't want to have a child, that you don't want to take this obligation into your life, we think that that is no longer valid.
Because once you choose to value a future human life by choosing to have a baby, and then you decide in the long run that you're not going to value that human life, we think that that is discriminatory in nature and it's discriminatory against the idea of your future child.
In that way we think its problematic for these abortions to occur.
The combination of this and the stigma that occurs to these people, I think, outweighs the fact that parents get a little bit more time to plan for these children when they're going to be born and we think because of that prenatal diagnosis brings more harm than good.