We should protect endangered species.
So, when we're talking about protecting endangered species, we think of a few things in particular.
Firstly, we would obviously institute prohibitions on hunting, so if an animal is on the endangered species list, we would say that there should be laws against being able to hunt that animal, and of course very stiff penalties that come with breaking those laws, to ensure that if they are broken that there's deterrence against people doing it in the future.
We would also have investments in reservations and sanctuaries in order to ensure that for animals, especially those where their environments are being continually destroyed by globalization, by industrialization and by climate change, that there are sanctuaries guaranteed for these animals so they can live in their natural environments, where they're able to grow and be healthy and actually live in the way where they are naturally meant to be, and this could include investing in having large swaths of land in order to invest in preserving these animals' environments.
Okay.
So firstly, we would say that animals should be given human rights.
We think that rights need to be objective in order for them to be enforceable.
What we think the reason for this is that if rights are based on arbitrary standards, for example if I arbitrarily decide that animals should be excluded because they're not human, allowing for arbitrary distinctions in who can and cannot serve rights, opens the door for allowing any sort of arbitrary distinction.
It can allow for arbitrary distinctions based on race, on gender, on other types of things that are immutable to an individual, in the same way that the species that an animal is is immutable to what it is.
And given that this is the case, we think that having arbitrary system of rights, non-objective systems of rights, ultimately lead to people that we care about or should care about being harmed.
In order to avoid this, we think that an objective way to look at rights is is through rights being the system to avoid pleasure and pain.
We think that ultimately rights exist for those two primary purposes.
If you ask why people should be given the right to life, why they should be given the right to bodily autonomy, the answer is ultimately that it having those types of rights is likely to minimize the pain that that person experiences and maximize their pleasure.
Animals are capable of experiencing pain and pleasure in deep ways.
There the stimulus of pain and pleasure somewhere in animals as it is to humans, and they can be knowledgeable of the pain they are facing, they can even come to fear that pain in the future.
There are also, if you don't think that the pain pleasure principle is is important and you would base it on things like consciousness, animals are often capable of building communities, having empathy, collective collective learning, and other human traits.
So we think that animals, based on objective standards which everyone who choose to use, deserve to have right.
So, we and so the second reason that we think we should protect endangered species, aside from the fact that they have rights and they need to be those rights need to be preserved through protections, is that we are responsible for them being endangered in most instances.
Human expansion and industrial development cleared whole ecosystems and crowded out other species.
It led to massive declines in species on a global level, and on top of that, things like climate change that led to increased drought, increased environmental disasters, different weather patterns and migrations of animals en masse, all of these things led to the endangerment of thousands of different types of animal species across the globe.
Given that human activity is intrinsically linked with the fact that these animals are endangered, with the fact that the species is suffering at the hands of humankind, we think we have an obligation to act to help them.
Given that we as a species, we as a collective, have benefited from the things that brought so much harm to these animals, we have an obligation to ensure that we don't benefit of of obvious rights violations.
The rights violation of having your homes destroyed, of being put in immense pain and facing death, simply because of the fact that your environment has been eroded.
We don't think that this is just and we think it violates the rights that these animals ought have.
And for these reasons, we should protect endangered species.