Protect endangered species.
In this debate we're gonna make two main arguments.
The first of which has to do with animal rights and why we don't think animals should be given rights, and the second is about natural selection and why endangered species are simply fated to go extinct.
Alright.
So firstly, on animal rights.
We would say that rights are not something that is that are born out of the natural universe.
Rights aren't something that are given innate value by our physical laws or the reality that we live in.
Rights, rather, are a social construct.
They are created by human societies in order to embed certain values in those societies, and in order to ensure certain protections for members of those societies.
And what this means is that these rights are entirely made to fulfill human needs.
There's no inherent value in those rights, there's only value in those rights insofar as humans internalize the value of those rights, and those rights are only gained only gain meaning insofar as that is the case, and insofar as those rights are respected.
So we think that a good barrier to determine who should have rights are based on those metrics, and we think that animals don't deserve rights on those metrics.
So, what are we talking about when we mean they don't deserve rights.
Firstly, animals cannot reciprocate those rights.
The way that rights hold value, and the way that a system of rights is upheld, is by ensuring that all people who are given rights within a society have an obligation to reciprocate those rights for other rights bearers.
This is not the case for animals, whether or not they're endangered.
If you're an animal, you do not have the knowledge of the rights that you are being given, and in that case you do not have the ability to meaningfully reciprocate those rights.
If I'm alone in the woods and a starving animal needs to eat, it will attack me and it will do so whether or not I give it rights, and it will do so without care for the need to reciprocate those rights.
Secondly, animals cannot internalize the value.
Animals are not aware, for the most part, of their own mortality, and furthermore if they were to be given rights they would not know that those rights existed, so they couldn't plan in the future based on those rights, they couldn't gain any sort of meaning from those rights, those right would have no value being internalized to those animals, and therefore we don't think there's any purpose in giving animals those rights.
And finally, animals simply are not a part of that social construct of rights, are a type of entity, are a type of social construct that is made only for those within that social construct, animals don't fall under that categorization.
If we give animals rights, we, I believe, we only do it for the value of human beings, because humans see some sort of value in having those animals.
Whether it's because they upkeep they do upkeep to our ecosystem, or because we enjoy having them as pets, that's when we give animals rights.
But it's not because of anything innate to the animals, it is only to do with what humans want.
And given that these animals are endangered, we don't believe that humans have a particular affinity for them to begin with, and therefore there's no reason to give them rights.
On natural selection.
We think that many endangered animals simply are not fit to survive.
For example, many endangered species can't adapt to certain climate change factors such as raising temperatures in their ecosystems, they can't adapt to deforestation, they simply cannot continue to compete in the world in which they currently live.
We believe that if we're not going to undo these types of devastation, and we're clearly not taking those steps in regard to reversing climate change, or declining urbanization, or declining deforestation, none of those things are taking place.
So what we think this means is that any sort of resources poured into protecting endangered species are only waste of resources, that otherwise could go to improving human society and improving society for those that do have rights, that do have value from those rights, and that we have an obligation to reciprocate that value for.
For these reasons, we should not protect endangered species.