We should not protect the antarctic continent.
So we want to start this debate by clarifying what we mean when we say we would not protect the antarctic continent.
What we mean by this is that we're not going to simply remove all restrictions that exists on doing operations in the antarctic, but rather we're going to be very specific, we're going to remove restrictions on drilling, we're going to remove restrictions on searching for resources, and of resources such as natural gas, oil and other types of rare minerals or other beneficial resources that can be extracted, if those are found to exist, especially in the deep antarctic, so like in the central area where there are very few hazardous ecosystems.
Not hazardous, but hazardous effects on ecosystems that are possible in those areas, because there are very few animals in those areas, we would allow drilling and resource extraction in those instances.
So we're not going to eliminate all protections, but we just think we need to take a more sensible approach to how we're going to use the natural resources that are available to us.
So that's what this speech is going to be about.
Firstly, it's going to be about the possible resources that could be gathered, and the benefits that would accrue from those, and then secondly, we're going to talk about global warming and the offense that the the proposition team tries to draw from that.
So firstly, on resources.
The fact is that this is an entirely undisturbed continent of resources, and while it was very, while it is currently excluded from the rest of the world, prior to prior to the drift of continents, this continent was in the same region, attached to all the other continents that exist today, and there's no reason to believe, based on geological evidence, that resources are not available in the arctic, that there're that oil doesn't exist and natural gas exists, that other rare earth minerals don't exist in the same proportion as other continents that we've seen.
So we think it's very likely that if you release the restrictions on the type of on this type of development, on resource extraction development, you're likely going to have success in these things.
Why do we think that this is a particularly good thing to do?
Firstly, rare earth minerals like gold and other types of precious metals are becoming increasingly more valuable here on earth because of increased demands for technological innovation.
So these are metals that are crucial to the developing of technologies that are used in all types of fields.
In health fields, in IT fields, in communications fields, all types of things that are important for the progress of humanity as a species.
And given that that's the case, we think that these are important resources that we need to go after in the status quo if we're going to continue to improve our our standing in our technological advancement.
Furthermore, because no one state has control over the antarctic, we actually think that resource sharing will be much more fair if we take these resources from the antarctic.
So because no one no one country or continent has claim to the antarctic resources, we think that it's much more likely that developed nations would have better chance at getting these resources before they're taken over by colonial powers, and we think that this would actually help in their development, if they would become less dependent on other countries for natural resources and for energy and these types of things, and were able to develop on their own terms, if they're able to get some of these resources.
Finally, on global warming.
It's important to recognize that we are past the scientific scientific tipping point as to when global warming is going to be irreversible.
We're now at a stage when we need to ask ourselves how do we best protect the people that are here.
How do we best to ensure that future generations are going to be protected from the impacts that are going to come from global warming.
We think the way to do that is to ensure that we get as much technological progress as possible, because what technological process comes or progress comes, both the possibilities that will be able to reverse engineer what's occurred on earth and undo the natural impacts of global warming that we've already had, and secondly, that we're able to build structures, built resources, build environmental domes, things like this, that are able to protect humanity when the worst impacts of global warming come to pass.
But given that these things are going to come to pass, we don't think that it's worth the preservation of the entire resource resources that the antarctic has just to ensure that slightly more glacial melt doesn't happen and to ensure that slightly more development doesn't happen.
So we don't think that this will be the tipping point, we think we've already passed the tipping point, and we need to prepare for the future, and for this reason, we should not protect the antarctic continent.