We should not criminalize blasphemy.
In this debate, we're going to make two main arguments.
The first is about freedom of speech and why it is so crucial to a functioning democratic state and why blasphemy laws dramatically undermine that, and secondly we're going to talk about the problems of religion and why it might not be such a bad thing to blaspheme those religions.
Okay.
So first, on freedom to freedom of speech.
We think that freedom of speech is a fundamentally crucial is fundamentally crucial to a functional state, and there's a few reasons for this.
Firstly, freedom of speech allows for a robust marketplace of ideas, and what this means is that when we come together as a as a society and make choices about which policies are going to govern us, which norms are going to impact our day to day decision making, how we are going to view ourselves as a people, and how we are going to function moving forward.
Having freedom of speech allows for allows for the most amount of ideas to come out and to be discussed and debated for the general public.
What this ensures is that the best ideas tend to rise to the top.
Those ideas that are the most logical, those ideas that would create the most benefit for all, those ideas that are most crucial to our time, are those that are brought to the forefront and ultimately those that are adopted in our norms and our laws.
Blasphemy laws diminish this freedom of speech and punish people for their personal beliefs.
We do not believe that it is the role of a just state to legislate thought.
We think that thought and we think that personal beliefs are something that people should have the liberty to express, that people should have the liberty to hold, and just because you do not believe what the majority and what the mainstream believes, and just because you say something that may go against the norms of your society, does not mean you are causing actual harm onto those and onto society.
Now, this is a case for blasphemy as well.
If I say that I believe that the christian god is a bad god, is a god that needs to be punished and a god that I will not follow, if I blaspheme that god, there's nothing that I have done in the eyes of a christian to actually belittle that god.
That god is all-powerful and that god will continue to be all-powerful in the eyes of christians.
They may not like what I said, but they cannot say to have been actually harmed through the actions I have taken.
And we think that laws should have the purpose of actually protecting from third party harms.
Given that that just does not exist in the case of blasphemy, we think that criminalizing it is problematic.
Finally, we would say that what counts as blasphemous is often very opaque.
This could include speaking out against abuse of religious leaders, which we're going to talk about now.
We think that there are a number of problems with many religions that need to be addressed, and blasphemy laws hide under the rug.
We'd say that religions are often incredibly coercive.
They restrict critical thought within their members and rely on broad faith rather than logic, which fosters bad decision making calculi.
What's also important to recognize is many members of faith are indoctrinated at a young age when they're brought in as children, which means that they don't have a real decision to make, they're really not consenting into becoming religious individuals, they're not coming to that realization on their own, but rather they're coerced by their upbringing into coming into that religion.
These are all things that are true and coercive about religion, that blasphemy laws would probably make very difficult to point out and make difficult to upheave that course of apparatus.
We also think that there is a history of abuse amongst members by of members by religious leaders.
For example catholicism, in the last many decades, has seen time and again abuse abuse allegations come out against pastors.
Not being able to criticize those that are in charge of the faith, not being able to criticize religious leaders, allows for these types of abuses to continue and prevents these types of abuses from actually being punished.
Blasphemy laws don't allow you to challenge the problems of religion, so even if you're coming from a point of good faith, even if you're coming from a point where you want to help, blasphemy undermines your ability to do so, or blasphemy laws undermine your ability to do so.
For these reasons, we should not criminalize blasphemy.