We should protect the antarctic continent.
In the status quo there already exist regulations that ensure that ownership of the antarctic continent cannot belong to one particular country or group of countries, and to ensure that drilling doesn't occur, that resource extraction doesn't occur, and that the ecosystems that exist in the antarctic are not tampered with.
We would ensure that all of those protections are upheld moving forward, if not strengthened to ensure that no private interests could private interests or countries could come in to try and use the resources that exist in the antarctic.
We think that the preservation of the antarctic is absolutely necessary.
So firstly, we're gonna talk about why the antarctic in particular is so important, and secondly, we're going to talk about about the bad pragmatic outcomes that would occur if you were to use resources from the antarctic.
So firstly, we think this is a particularly vulnerable ecosystem.
Unlike most ecosystems this one is not one that has interacted with industrialization or human kind, for the vast majority of its existence.
We've only been in the arctic circle at the antarctic continent for about a hundred years now, we don't develop in any way on the antarctic continent so there's no drilling operations are mining operations that exist, the animals are not attuned to dealing with people in the same way that animals are that live near urban areas or live in a continent that is developed generally, and we don't think that these ecosystems are tuned to the change that would occur because of human development.
We think that what's likely going to happen is that animal populations would start to die out because of the change in their environment that drilling and other types of production or industrial operation would cause, we think that ecosystems and natural mating grounds could be interrupted with , that for the vast majority for a vast majority of animals on the continent there would be negative impacts on them moving forward.
Their mating rituals, their living habitat, what have you.
And also more importantly, this is a particularly important zone the larger global implications that glacier melting and things like heating at the poles causes sea levels to rise which have massive implications on the world generally.
It leads to islands islands are being under, water cities are sinking, all these things have tremendous impact on the larger global level, and we think that of all the regions to try and tempt fate with, the antarctic is not the one.
But secondly, disregarding those things, I wanna talk about the pragmatic outcomes that would arise from the antarctic resource extraction, and why those are bad.
So firstly, firstly why we think it's bad.
So, we think that you're likely going to get more fossil fuels, oil, these types of coal-burning gases.
This is bad for a couple of reasons, first, it only perpetuates the cycle of harm that we're doing to our to our world right now, and secondly, it's not a very smart business move in the status quo to try and use fossil fuels because green technology is becoming ever more cheap, doesn't rely on expungable resources like oil and coal, these types of things, and we think that it's just a bad investment in the status quo whereas this money or these the the money that goes into resource extraction could go into to green technology development which is already becoming more and more profitable, second, on resource extraction such as rare earth minerals, we think that there are in the status quo other ways to get these minerals, for example astro mining is becoming a possibility, and these other examples with other options actually lead to more innovation and more resources being extracted in the long run, and we think that we should favor the long run approach in trying to do the more innovative thing rather than harming our ecosystem.
The final thing, the final thing is that there would be a massive legal problem if we weren't going to do this.
If we allowed countries or individual companies to exploit the antarctic continent, because in the status quo it is preserved by the fact that no country may lay claim to it, we think only what we would get is a massive legal battle.
That countries will be furious with each other over who was extracting the resources and why they weren't able to profit from these things, we think it would only lead to a tremendous amount of conflict which is why these protections exist in the first place.
Given that the pragmatic outcomes of what is going to occur is likely going to be detrimental in regards to energy usage, in regard of mineral usage and in legal require in legal regards, we simply think that the risk to the ecosystem is not worth it, and that we should protect the antarctic continent.