We should criminalize blasphemy.
So to be abundantly clear in this debate we wanna make a distinction between criticism of religion and blasphemy and blaspheme.
So we think that blasphemy is not necessarily criticizing religion but it's denouncing the fact that the religion exists.
Denouncing the beliefs and denouncing holders of those views, and saying that the religion itself is fundamentally problematic.
That the religion itself is fundamentally a bad thing.
It's not necessarily saying that certain tenants of religion may be problematic or that certain tenants religion, we don't wanna prohibit theological discussion because we think that faith only grows with more theological discussion, but essentially critical views, views that are critical of the holding of religion itself, we would criminalize those views.
Okay.
So, two reasons why we think that blasphemy needs to be prohibited: the first is we're going to talk about the purpose of faith and why it's so crucial.
Recognize that faith, no matter what faith one may hold, is essentially it means of achieving spiritual peace.
We recognize the world that we live in is essentially a nihilist world.
There is no, from any sort of natural way, meaning derived upon our existence which means that nature and the state of existence, biology, science, are never going to be enough to dictate answers to questions that exist such as why should we be here, why should we exist and what good acts should I serve?
We think that religion is able to fill that void within humanity.
When people are able to have a faith and are able to hold their faith, they're able to come to some sort of peace about these questions.
Faith dictates to individuals what is morally right and wrong, which helps to answer quandaries that simply do not have a right answer in an objective sense.
It also allows for people to have an understanding of how they should live their life, what the purpose of their life is, and more importantly at the end of it, it gives them a sense of security over the after life.
The most tantalizing and curious thing about human life itself is death, is what happens after death and religion allows for people to come to peace with that.
We think without religion people have much less security in their being and security in their life which makes them ultimately more nihilist in their existence and more depressed in their existence.
So we think that religion plays a crucial role in the ability for people to have utility in their lives.
To fulfill themselves in a meaningful way outside of just the physical world.
We don't think that religion itself is an exclusive ideology.
So we don't think that religion itself necessarily excludes logic and understanding of things outside of the world.
For example, the pope came out and said that evolution can be concurrent with god.
Its way that we come to understand god.
So we don't think that religion itself excludes people from having critical thinking, it only allows them to answer questions that are beyond the scope of their critical thinking.
So with that in mind, we think that blaspheme is essentially hate speech.
Blasphemy is not just a criticism, but hate.
For example, when you see people like richard dawkins who demonize all religions as hateful, as problematic, as trying to spew anger at the world, which is simply not how religion actually functions.
They take extremism and they take extremist views and they perpetuate those as the mainstream, and it criticizes people for things that are beyond their control.
We think that this is unfair and we think it's essentially an attack on the person in the same way that people are attacked for their immutable characteristics.
Whether it be gender or whether it be race.
People can also be attacked for the religious views they hold and in many ways these religious views aren't things that you choose.
It's something that comes to you from a sign of god when it comes to you through a a deeply developed faith that you've had since you're very youngest point, since you were a child and in this way it's something that is very hard to discard through voluntary effort.
So we think that essentially when you blaspheme, when you say hatred towards religion in general, when you say hatred and you spew hatred about religion you're attacking a person's individual self.
People shouldn't have to experience hatred simply because their religion may be illogical, or because people that practice their religion do bad things in other areas.
We don't think that people who are muslim should face the wrath that is attacked and sent towards extremists and we don't think that this should be the case for any other religion.
While criticism is good for public discourse and theological discussion is important, we don't think blasphemy serves any public good and for this reason we should criminalize blasphemy.