Holocaust denial should not be a criminal offense.
We think that this debate ultimately becomes a debate about freedom of speech, so we're going to talk broadly about freedom of speech, and then we're going to talk about when we think it's just to restrict freedom of speech, and then we're going to explain why holocaust denial just doesn't fall into this category.
So firstly, on freedom of speech.
We would say that freedom of speech is one of the most important rights within a democracy.
We would say that it is essentially at the core of democracy.
The reason for this is that freedom of speech is the right that allows you for political dissension.
It allows you to put out ideas that authority figures may not agree with and allows for the discussion by the popular body and the body politic about what those ideas are.
It allows for ideas to naturally rise to the top if they are the best, the most worthy, the most innovative, and the most useful.
Without freedom of speech, we think that oftentimes authority victors authority figures are going to try and tapper down the speech and ensure that new ideas don't come to the rise, because new ideas are a threat to authority.
But also, on a more personal level and a less social level, freedom of speech allows for personal expression.
It allows you to be the author of your life and the author of your social narrative in the sense that it allows you to talk about the things that are meaningful to you, to speak and converse without fear that those things that are most valuable to you are those things that you're allowed to express.
We think that when you have denial of freedom of speech, there's a slippery slope that also erodes the freedom of expression and ultimately erodes our democratic system.
We think that because of this, restriction should always come only happen after an incredibly high bar is met, and we think that the most fair bar is one of imminent bodily danger.
We think that if you're going to if you're going to restrain freedom of speech, you must have a non-arbitrary bar and a and a non-subjective bar.
We think that bodily imminent bodily danger is a relatively objective standard to use, and we think that it allows you to weigh the freedom of speech against a more important right, which is bodily autonomy, the right to life, these things that are necessary in order to access freedom of speech and therefore can outweigh the value of freedom of speech in an objective stance.
So why do you think that holocaust denial simply does not meet that?
Well, firstly, there are still other protections against actual violence and actual discrimination.
If someone is antisemitic in their character, you can't punish them for having that character trait.
But if they act on that character trait in a way that actually impacts people who are of jewish descent, you can then prosecute those people for those crimes.
You can even introduce hate crime laws if you wish, but only if there's an actionable offense.
We don't think that holocaust denial is a meaningful actionable offense of antisemitism primarily because we don't think that it is ever a very real risk to a real risk to rise to public prominence in our ideological sphere of discussion.
We think that most people, in fact, the vast, vast majority of people in the world think that holocaust denials holocaust deniers are wrong, that they are backwards, that their information is incorrect.
We have documentation, we have physical examples of holocaust, there are concentration camps that still exist.
All of these things are real tangible evidence that prove holocaust deniers wrong, and we don't think that there is a real risk that holocaust deniers will have any sort of political clout or of any sort of ideological clout.
And for this reason, we don't think that the act of holocaust denial has any sort of direct route to antisemitism being instituted in either our institutions or in our social practices en masse, and we don't think that there's a direct link there.
Because holocaust denial does not, in and of itself, create this imminent bodily danger, we think that you shouldn't just simply deny something, deny the freedom of speech, because it makes some people uncomfortable.
This leads to an incredibly problematic slippery slope that could undermine our democracy.
For these reasons, holocaust denial should not be a criminal offense.