Physical education should be mandatory.
We think that physical education should be mandatory in grades k through twelve all across the developed world and we think that federal funding for this should be given directly to schools to ensure that they can have strong physical education programs.
These classes would take place daily.
They'd probably take place for half an hour to an hour every day depending on what local look like authorities and school figures decide was appropriate.
But we think that there are immense benefits that can come from this.
It's important at the very top of this debate to recognize that there's a massive obesity epidemic that currently exists in the developed world.
In the developed world there are numerous different distractions types things that happen online and numerous amounts of different media platforms that children can turn and children do turn to on a daily basis that keep them from going outside that keep them from getting their daily activity.
And this is crucial because for a healthy human being scientists recognize that it is important that people get about thirty minutes of at least moderate activity every day in order to ensure that human development takes place at the progressive rate that it needs to to ensure that people are as healthy as they need to be to ensure that people are building strong muscles building strong bones all these types of things that are important for good physical health are tied with thirty minutes of moderate exercise every day.
Recognize that in a world in which we don't have mandatory physical education we think it is the case that for the vast majority of students in k through twelve most of these children will not get that type of activity every day.
Which means that students are not getting what they need to be successful in their lives.
The primary purpose of education is to ensure that students get these types of things build the proper habits learn the types of lessons that can insure that they succeed in the future.
We think that having mandatory physical education allows for students to build healthy habits by going through by going through physical education for a long period of one's life from ages five to seventeen on a daily basis we think it we think it ensures that students start to build those daily habits they start to become normalized to the idea of exercising everyday they become normalized to having themselves do these types of things they learn different types of exercises.
They learn how to keep themselves physically fit and they learn how to do it in a safe manner involving things like stretching and how to properly exercise in such a way so that you don't harm yourself.
All these things are things that can be taught in the physical education classroom.
And we think are crucial for one's development in the long run.
We think that by forming these healthy habits in childhood you're much more likely to breed adults that are willing to do these things in the long run and therefore make the population overall more healthy.
We also think that it is just beneficial to classroom education traditional classroom education to have mandatory physical education for very young children that have things such as ADHD and ADD diseases that are incredibly high in the developed world are incredibly common in the developed world.
We think that's important for these people to be able to use that excess energy that they have to have a positive outlook for that type of energy to be able to use their activity for physical education for physical health and for physical well being and we think that it ensures that those children are more easily able to focus in the classroom when they have that outlet that they know is going to come during their school time.
Furthermore we think that by having this type of outlet this type of period for all students it's a means of having some sort of stress relief during the school day a normalized form of stress relief that is a healthy form of stress relief that ensures that students are more likely to be focused when they enter the classroom.
We think that there are numerous studies that show a connection between having physical well being and being mentally healthy having the ability to take in information the ability to be productive in class and in the work space and the ability to have emotional well being as well and feeling better about yourself on a day to day basis the studies show that physical education is a is a necessity for a healthy populace and we think it's the government's obligation to fulfill that and for these reasons physical education should be mandatory.