Tower blocks are advantageous.
Tower blocks, otherwise known as high rise apartments or skyscraper apartment complexes, are a means by which you can fit more people into a small space by building up and building apartments on top of each other, as compared to things like urban sprawl which maintains like normal heights of buildings but spreads it out over a larger geographical distance.
Alright so firstly, we want to start by recognizing the obvious fact that in the status quo tower blocks are often recognized as things that are either incredibly impoverished, they're communal housing projects run by the government, they're welfare projects that have harm such as substandard living conditions, violence in these communities things high rates of drug use things like this, or they're incredibly affluent only a very select group of people can afford them because they're right in the center of a place like new york city, but recognize that none of these things are an essential aspect of tower blocks.
There's no reason why the government can't provide better living standards for the people that live in these situations.
They can't build better tower blocks that ensure that the living conditions are good.
They can put these things in more reasonable sections of of urban areas or they can't do what they need to do to improve these urban areas by cutting down the over policing in the and the discriminatory policing systems that cause these to be problematic areas.
Tower blocks themselves as a concept, we think, are actually crucial for the status quo in the world we're living in.
Recognize that the trend in the world is towards urbanization.
More and more people are moving towards urban cities and urban sectors and more and more people are going to need to fit into these areas.
If the the comparative in the sense is one about efficiency, if you don't use tower blocks you lead to urban sprawl.
Urban sprawl because more people are going to come to these areas which means either you have things developing like massive slums which are even worse living conditions, or you get massive ecological damage by spreading the city out so so so drastically that you have to cut down you have to cut down local ecosystems and environments and you need to do serious damage in order to allow for the amount of space that you need to fit millions of people.
But we actually think that so we think this is a more efficient use of space to have these tower blocks.
We also think that this trend is a good one and it's one that should be encouraged by increase housing availability.
Urban areas are great hubs for individual accomplishment.
They're good for the economy because there's a large sum of money and a lot of expendable resources in one area which means there can be a wide variety of markets, products, services, all in one sector which means you can have a lot of niche forms of entertainment and service available to you which only improved your life.
Is there is much higher access to job opportunity because you're not limited to those jobs that you could walk to, or you you're not limited to a few dozen jobs within your town in a small locality or where you can drive to and commute to work, but in a large city there are thousands of corporations and thousands of different businesses looking to hire millions of people in order to run their businesses and these are often the businesses that are the most affluent.
The best well paying jobs exist in urban areas because these are where the hubs of technology and business in the innovation exist.
They're also better access to public resources and education because there's more money to pull from.
There's more funding to pull from and it's easier to distribute things such as health care at a clinic or something like this if this clinic is located in an area where more people are populated and therefore things like this end up happening more often in urban areas.
We think that human progress is easier when people are able to get access to jobs, to economic resources, and to other opportunities that are only available when they're compacted in an urban area and we think that tower blocks are the way to ensure that these urban areas aren't drastically harmful to the ecosystem around them and use space in an efficient way that allows more people to join in on the success of urban areas and for these reasons we think tower blocks are advantageous.