Open source software is advantageous.
Open source software is software in which the contents and development data for this software are made public, and the ability to play with that data, to be able to change it, to hack it, to modify it to how you see fit, is open to publishers everywhere.
If you have the ability to make edits, if you have the ability to program, you can work with this software.
This is opposed to software such as the microsoft software that controls windows, in which this isn't open source, and adding into this is a violation of intellectual property and you can't redistribute it.
So, we think that there are four clear benefits of open open source software.
The first is this drives down tech costs.
The ability to have open source software means that you can have a variety of competing platforms that can be more easily personalized, and can be more easily fit to how individuals want to use that software.
What this means is that you can have a variety of different individuals in the market marketing this type of software, with slight variations that are increasingly important to how individuals are using their personal technology.
This means that you can have a variety of variety of more competitors within the tech market, within the software market, and what this does is it drives down tech prices for people overall.
Secondly, we think that it increases cooperative development.
What this means is that we think that when you have an open source software, in which you don't have to be within the same company to work on the development of a software, but you can be across the world working together on forums and working together through different sort of cooperative methods, we think you can get a better gathering of intellects, a better gathering of specializations, and overall you can get more innovation in how we create our technology, because when you have more minds that can work together with a variety of different backgrounds.
And furthermore you can allow people to build off of other advancements.
It means that not only do you have people working to solve and advance software collectively, but it also means that you have more platforms to build off of that software, which means that you can have not just an innovation that is done collectively, but an innovation in which when one person creates something, five other people can take that platform that has been developed or that that piece of software and create something new from it.
It means that you don't just have collective innovation, but you have individual innovation growing out of the same sphere.
The third the third the third benefit of open source software is how it can be personalized.
We've seen through people doing things like jailbreaking iphones, that people increasingly care about the ability to personalize their technology, to choose how their technology is going to function, to edit and make changes to how their software is going to operate.
Open source software means that you don't need to violate intellectual property laws to do this, and it means that you, even as a layperson who doesn't know how to program, can get the type of personalization that you want through easier easy developer tools or through the the developers the developer work that other people have done in order to make changes to that software.
Regardless of how it's done, open source software on balance allows for more personalization and more diversity in experience, which we think is just good for the consumer compared to other types of software, along with driving down prices for the consumer, as we've already discussed.
Finally, we think open source software allows for more privacy.
When you have open source software, it means that you have more variation in types of security systems, and more variation in how hackers may be able to exploit that software.
What that means is that when you have different niches and different people using the software in different ways, it makes it a less likely software to be targeted by hackers, because it doesn't have the same central mass as, say, hacking, one forum that works similarly, say, all gmail accounts or all yahoo accounts.
When you have open source software in which people have made independent variations on the software, what you get is a system that is overall more private, because it's just less prone to being attacked by things like spamming or other types of hacking methods that are used for massive data collection.
So with these four tangible benefits, and given that open source software doesn't doesn't mean there's any sort of trade-off in other developmental systems, we certainly think that open source software is advantageous.