We should prohibit flag burning.
So, we're talking about primarily the united states in this motion, we would say that individuals that do burn the flag, that do burn the american flag, would likely be fined, they probably wouldn't be arrested, but we're certainly going to fine them for this, offense, and if they continue to offend in this nature, we think that jail time is certainly a possibility.
Okay, so, firstly we're going to talk about why flag burning is particularly problematic in the american setting, and then we're going to talk about why it is justified for laws to be set up in this way, that runs contrary to the idea of freedom of speech.
Okay, so, we think that the american flag is a symbol of national pride, and of american values, and that as a symbol it is deeply ingrained in the american psyche, it is part of those that identify as americans.
What this means is that, when individuals burn an american flag, it is tacitly a threat to those values.
It is someone saying, in no unclear terms, that they believe that those values are bad, and that those values can be responded to, if necessary, with force, which is how symbolically burning the flag plays out in the minds of those that hold these patriotic values.
And we think that, as the state, you're justified in ensuring that those that hold patriotic values, that those are most loyal to you, that those who are most involved in your citizenry, in your body of politicking, are those that are protected, because those are the people that are the most deeply invested in the state apparatus.
So, we think this means is that when you burn the flag, you tacitly attack those ideas, and attack the livelihoods of citizens that hold those ideals.
Okay, secondly, on the nature of laws.
We would say that there there are no objectively correct laws, and what we mean by this is that, when the state creates itself, and when the state creates a law, there's no objective measurement of whether or not that law is good or bad.
We think that laws are created through largely democratic majoritarianism, in which laws are created, because they are popular, because they exist to serve the most good, for the most amount of people, and what this means is that, in the united states, flag burning laws, laws that prohibit these types of things, are fundamentally very popular, and we think that there is an obligation of the state to respect what the popular will would dictate.
And the reason that we think this is acceptable, in the face of free speech laws, is that burning the american flag is not the only way to protest american values, it's not the only way to protest what the american state is doing in any given way.
We think that there are a number of other ways, in which you can protest, that are much more meaningful than burning the flag, but don't attack the livelihoods of citizens themselves, that don't pose a threat, or seem to pose a threat, to the well being of the american citizenry.
And given that, and given that this isn't such an immense burden to place on protesters, that you can't burn the american flag, but maybe you can burn effigy of the president of the united states, you could pass around a petition, that says we don't like what the government is doing, you can protest in the streets.
There are many ways in which you are able to protest, that don't involve burning an american flag, that also don't involve attacking the livelihoods, and threatening the livelihoods, in in in the ideas of those that hold these patriotic values.
Because there's no fundamental contradiction, between the freedom of protest and the freedom of speech and the and prohibiting people from flag burning, and because the american flag is such an important symbol of national ideals and values, we should prohibit flag burning.