We should not disband asean.
So we have two large categories of argumentation we're going to present.
The first is why in in in ethereal context why asean is a good international actor, and the second context we want to provide is why it is a comparatively good international actor.
So firstly, we're going to talk about the benefits to member states of the asean, and then we're going to talk about why it's a good model and it should be perpetuated in other international spheres and for other countries.
Okay, so firstly, on why the asean is good.
We think that people now take it for granted that global cooperation and regional cooperation happens on the scale that it does, but it is a historical abnormality that such cooperation is able to take place.
We think that these nations have similar security and economic interests and that by dispanding the asean, you do all of them a disservice.
So let's look at the things that the asean provides as a benefit in the status quo.
Firstly, in cooperation in cooperating, these nations these nations increase their global clout.
As individual nations, they're rather small on the global scale but when you interact as a block, in global talks and global treaty arguments and things like this, we think you increase the amount of bargaining power that these countries get overall.
Which means that you're more likely to get benefits coming to you in things like treaties on global warming and things like global security treaties that are beneficial to these regional actors.
On an economic on an economic level, we think that cooperation can can eliminate trade barriers, which is largely what is the asean and has done up to this point, lowering tariffs and eliminating tariffs, increasing free trade amongst these countries, which increases new markets that are available to domestic to domestic corporations.
It creates new markets that they can sell their goods to which we think increases the amount of money flowing between these countries and overall increases GDP.
It also allows more capital to flow freely from each country to the other, which means that there are more investment opportunities for people that are wealthy and more opportunities to receive investment for businesses that are just starting to get off the ground.
Which means you have more capability for innovation to occur within your state rather than requiring that innovation to come from without.
It also means that more labor resources are available to all countries within the asean.
This this isn't just skilled but also unskilled labor.
It means that you have more people, a larger labor potential to draw from, which means that businesses in these nations can get more qualified laborers for whatever job that they're trying to solve for.
So now we want to talk about the comparative benefits.
Recognize that international cooperation and other international groups are, for the large part, less less beneficial, less democratic, than the asean, and we think that the asean actually is a rather democratic model that other nations and other groups should try to emulate.
Let's look at the comparative.
Firstly, you have organizations, like the UN, that are, for the most part, impotent.
They're too large, they don't cater to regional needs, they don't cater to what individual countries may need or the problems that those individual countries are facing.
And because they're so big, they're so bloated, they simply cannot function.
There's no direction, there's no leadership, nothing like this.
On the contrary, you have other groups, such as the ECB and the european union, in which for the most part, hegemons reign supreme.
In the EU, you have countries like germany and france that are able to push around and dictate what is going on in smaller countries within the same block, whereas the asean is an actual democratic body.
It is a body that fosters global cooperation and regional cooperation in a way that doesn't subjugate certain nations at the expense of more powerful nations.
We think that this is a model that countries can learn from and that regional actors can learn from moving forward.
Disbanding it would harm that potential on the international sphere, and would also harm these countries for all the economic and security reasons that I touched on before.
For these reasons, we should not disband asean.