The vow of celibacy should be abandoned.
What we mean by this is that the current catholic doctrine doctrine that exists in other forms of christianity but mostly in catholicism, that requires that priests and other religious leaders in the in the congregation are not allowed to do things like get married, they're not allowed to father children, they can never have sex.
This is the vow that they take on when they take on the role in the church.
We think that that shouldn't be a restriction placed on them but rather they should be treated just as any other congregation goer, and the moral code that applies to other people in their congregation should apply to them as well.
We have a few reasons for this.
The first is that we think it's simply unfair and the second is that we think that there is no theological reason, there's no theological grounding, for such a vow.
What we would say is that priests are only human.
They create companionship and intimacy just like any other person in their congregation would.
Simply because someone takes on the role of priesthood doesn't mean that they are embodied with divine nature.
It doesn't mean that they're capable of doing the divine, rather they are human that have chosen to take on the job and take on the task of being the relayer between their congregation and god.
As such, we don't think that there's any sort of special capability that these people have and we don't think that the ability to interact or the ability to have some sort of companionship in one's life dilutes one's ability from being able to from being able to converse with god or be able to relate it god in the way that a priest needs to be.
We can that as messengers for god they are not divine in and of themselves, and shouldn't be placed with restrictions that are only capable of the divine to carry out.
We also think that there are other ways in which the restrictions of the vow of celibacy can be can remain in place and that they are legitimate.
For example the moral code of catholicism that you can have sex before marriage we think that that is clearly an acceptable code to place a priest because this is the code that god has said is necessary and is requisite for all god fearing catholic individuals on earth.
As such obviously this would still apply to priests but we don't think that going beyond that and saying one can never have sex, one can never be married, one can never have a family, that they must be totally devoted to god and nothing else we don't think that that's fair to place to place upon priests.
We think the legitimacy of the vow is also massively undermined by things such as the the pedophile epidemic that exists in the catholic church.
We think that given that the appearance of the catholic church is one that has been massively ruined by the scandals that have rocked the church for the last several decades, we think that the vow of celibacy is outdated, and possibly allowing people to have families, to have relationships, to have that intimacy, may possibly cut down on those types of scandals in the future.
We also think there's no theological grounding for this type of vow.
Multiple text talk about how jesus may have had a wife, may have had a child, and some and given that this is the case, given that the most divine person within the catholic faith may have done these types of things, may have had the kind of human connections we don't think that it's obviously something that's fair to place upon priests which are not divine in the same way that jesus was.
Given that this is the case, we don't think that there's any sort of theological legitimacy for placing this restriction rather this restriction is one that's based on tradition.
It's based on ensuring that people follow what's been done in the past and we think that simply blindly following tradition in this nature isn't going to do things that allow these priests to have more of a connection with god.
It isn't going to do anything to attract more people to come into the faith, to attract more people to come to the church.
We think that religion needs to be obviously cognizant of its traditions but when they're not theologically based, when they're not textually based, we think that when there are clear harms such as unfair and divine restrictions placed on priest that these should be abandoned and for these reasons, the vow of celibacy should be abandoned.