The vow of celibacy should not be abandoned.
We have two main arguments as to why we think the vow of celibacy is still important in our modern society and why it should not be abandoned.
The first is about the importance of giving yourself to god, and the second is about why scripture is important for church leaders to follow in particular, and why we don't necessarily think that every person is made to be a priest.
Okay, so on the importance of giving yourself to god: scripture religiously and theologically, we think that the purpose of the law the vow of celibacy is that people give themselves, give of themselves, and show true devotion to god.
They show a true devotion to their faith, and they make a commitment to themselves and to their and and to their religious background, to their lord, about what they think is most important.
We think that the vow of celibacy shows a total devotion to god and ensures a a faithfulness to his message to ensure that one does not stray.
We think that when you don't have a family, when you don't have children, and when you don't have a wife, you're a better student of the bible, you're more likely to understand and preach it to others in a way that is convincing, not just convincing but also one in which you have a true understanding of what is being taught.
When you make this type of commitment, it doesn't just mean that you're making this commitment and going on and doing whatever you want with your life.
It's a sign of further actions to come.
It's a sign of true dedication to study, and to worship, and to prayer, and to having this deeper understanding.
Separately, but also importantly, much like jesus was a shepherd of men, priests are supposed to be a shepherd to the flock of their church.
What this means is that preachers are not, priests and preachers are not supposed to be someone that has their own family, that has their own focus, that has a focus that is narrowly set on a few people, but rather it's supposed to be a focus that chooses to protect all people within their church, all of the people within their congregation, to serve as a fatherly figure to all people that come to them and to treat them as family, to give them guidance and advice, to make yourself available to them whenever they whenever they may seek this guidance, to ensure that you don't seem biased or to ensure that your focus is not on earthly things, but rather on the protection of these people's souls and their long-term well-being.
We think that the vow of celibacy allows you to maintain those types of connections to your congregation better than if you also have the focus of a family.
The second thing that we want to say is that scripture is important for church leaders.
We would say that many people that argue for the vow of celibacy to be abandoned would say that this is a hard burden to put on priests, that this is making them do something that they otherwise wouldn't be forced to do, and that it sets a difficult burden for people to meet and that ultimately, they usually break it.
This is all fine and well.
We don't think that a priest is supposed to be something that's easy to walk into.
We don't think that being a priest, being a lifelong, devoted nurturer of a congregation to teaching the word of god and to teaching the bible, we don't think that this is supposed to be an easy job.
We think that it's supposed to be something that you dedicate your life and your well-being to, and we think that if you're going to be that person, if you're going to take those steps and be a priest in the way that the church would want, to be a priest in the most holy of ways, which is what is being important when we consider which is important when we consider whether or not the vow of celibacy should be abolished, is what the church itself is looking to have be done, because the church itself is what sets this doctrine.
Given that that is the case, we think the church should prefer priests that have this type of devotion than to those that otherwise would bend and break just because this policy exists.
Given that we think you get stronger priests and that the whole purpose of being a priest, the whole purpose of having this leader of the flock, is to understand god's wisdom, to understand his message, and to pass it on to people as often, as frequently, and as faithfully as you can, we do not believe that the vow of celibacy hinders this.
We think it would it makes it more strong and much more likely to be carried out.
For these reasons, the vow of celibacy should not be abandoned.