We should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
When it comes to debates about energy, and energy innovation, we think that there's one thing that always needs to be kept in mind, that is crucial for these debates, which is the fact that climate change, as we understand it, is moving rapidly towards a point of no return, that, if not abated by removing our fossil fuel intake, and switching to renewable energy, such as hydroelectric power, we're going to approach a point at which the CO two levels in the atmosphere are going to rise, to where we cannot to where it will be above two degrees celsius of heating, over the global temperature, and in which massive changes in the environment, massive changes in the atmosphere, are going to result that are likely going to decimate major cities, coastal areas, and even entire countries.
We think that we need to avoid this, and if we don't do things like switch to hydroelectric power immediately, and with intense vigor, we're going to leave a world that is less and less habitable for our children.
So, that's what we're going to talk about.
When we talk about further exploiting hydroelectric dams, what we mean is increasing government state investment into this technology, increasing the usage, to developing more hydroelectric dams, probably putting some money into r and d, into try to make them more efficient, but as I'll talk about in a second, these things are already largely effective.
Okay, so why is this a good source of clean energy?
Firstly, it is clearly reusable, in the sense that sense hydroelectric dams operate on running water, it doesn't require any sort of input outside of developing the hydroelectric dam, in ensuring that the river, or whatever is running through these hydroelectric dams, is maintained.
And this isn't incredibly difficult.
While it's true that there are costs to the environment, associated with hydroelectric dams, and development that needs to take place in areas, that are usually not developed, we think that the comparative trade off between this, and the clear and massive damage that is done to the environment from fossil fuels, is one that is worth taking the risk.
It also is able to be used in a wide array, wide variety of environments, essentially anywhere, where there's sufficient running water, is a place where you could put a hydroelectric dam, which means unlike things like wind power, or solar power, it's not based on the environment in the area, not based on weather, it's not based on cloud coverage, or the amount of wind, but rather it's just based on having the natural flowing water.
And thirdly, what's interesting about hydroelectric dams is that they currently compose the vast majority of reusable energy that currently exists, and why this is beneficial is that in comparison to other technologies, such as solar, and wind, in which large amounts of investment money go into research and development, most of the money that would be going into hydroelectric dams, would be going purely into the creation of energy, because for the most part, we've been able to improve hydroelectric dams over a number of years.
Hydroelectric dams have been in use for for for decades, and given that this is the case, we think that, given that we need to rapidly transition to clean energy, we need to rapidly make these changes occur, we should invest in technologies like hydroelectric dams, in which most of most of the research and development has already been done, and now it's just a process process of installing the infrastructure, which means with hydro electric power you're more likely to get more bang for your buck, than you are with other types of renewable energy.
As we've explained, it is clearly the case that continuing our current trajectory is simply not tenable.
It's not going to leave a world that is habitable for our children, or even habitable for us, twenty years down the line.
We think that hydroelectric dams are technologies, that are already well understood, where the research and development has already been put in, and where public investment could lead to increases in energy usage, increases in clean energy usage, and that these things are clearly preferable to the status quo we're living in now.
For these reasons, we should further exploit hydroelectric dams.