We should privatize the united states social security.
We think that the way that we would go about doing this is to transfer social security account management to the private investment firm of the holder's choosing.
So whoever has the social security account the individual that that account is accumulating money for that person would be able to choose which private investment firm is going to handle their social security handle the investment of that social security.
You'd still have to pay into social security as you had been in the past that system isn't going to change it's just how we're going to manage that is going to strip to private investment firms.
First we think you get a better return on investment what you privatize social security.
And secondly we think you get more personalized decisions which is more just given that it's your money that's going into social security we think you should have some sort of modicum of choice as to how that money is being spent.
So first on a better ROI.
Standard social security does not earn an immense amount of interest.
This essentially forces people to put money into a low interest savings account rather than invest in other opportunities.
There are much more lucrative retirement funds that exist than social security but social security in the status quo cannot be bolstered.
And the money that's going in there can be bolstered in the same ways as these other funds.
Privatizing we would say fixes this quite easily.
These institutions these private investment firms are built to provide larger returns for their clients and they have two main incentives to do this.
The first is a market incentive.
There's competition to hold assets as an as an investment firm you want to have as many assets as possible in order to bolster your investments in order to invest in more lucrative deals in order to increase your clout in the marketplace.
All these things means that firms are likely to hire top talent with a proven track record of increasing their shareholders in revenue and increasing the revenue for those that invest with them.
The second major incentive is that investors get commission based off of their earnings er not investors but the people that are investing the private investment firms they get in they get a commission based off of the earnings so there's a direct financial incentive to earn as much money as possible because when your clients earn money you as an investor also are earning money you get more and more money this weeping this multi faceted incentive program means that you're almost guaranteed to have a better return on investment than social security does in the status quo.
So on more personalized decisions.
Because there are a number of firms you can invest with there are a number of different types of private investment firms you can have a more personalized choice over how your money grows and is invested.
You can choose to invest in an ethical practice there are a number of firms that have risen up especially over the past couple of decades that invest primarily in ethical practices.
These are firms that differentiate themselves from say the firms that are likely to invest in oil companies that invest in bad farming practices that invest in things that degrade the environment you can make that choice and therefore you know that your money is being used in a way that you believe to be ethical.
You can also invest in safer low risk investments.
If you like that social security and the status quo is stable you can invest in a private investment firm that's going to invest in low risk options like bonds.
You can also invest in particular industries.
You can choose to go with an investment firm that has a track record in tech or that has a track record in real real estate or any type of market that you choose.
We think that this is good because it gives each account holder the ability to choose how the money that they affirm through their labor to their time how that money is going to be spent what causes and what businesses that money is going to and it gives them more choice over the amount of risk they want to take on for their long term financial planning.
We think that all of this is better than the status quo and on balance you're going to get better return on investment for these reasons we should privatize the united states social security.