Private universities bring more good than harm.
So, when we're talking about private universities, we think that, any non public university is fair for debate within this round, we think that includes both for profit, and not for profit institutions, and so, we would say that on balance, between all those institutions, private universities bring more good than harm.
So firstly, what we want to talk about is the right to education, and the right to choice in education, and secondly, we are going to talk about the tangible impacts that come from private universities.
So firstly, on choice.
So we think that, people should have the ability to choose where they want to go to be educated.
Education is a crucial function of being able to be socially mobile, to be economically mobile within a society, and to better oneself, and attain employment.
So, given that it is such a crucial part and a crucial aspect of life as we know it, within our societies, we think that people should have the autonomy and the choice, to choose where they're going to go.
We would say that private universities, not only offer more variety to those choices, but also ensures that you have competition for public institutions.
We think that, if all upper if all education, all university education, came simply from public institutions, we think there would be very little check on these institutions, and therefore we think that it's likely that these institutions would be prone to a number of harms, including corruption, trying to be trying to gain money through these public institutions.
We think prices could possibly go up, when there's no check on the prices of these institutions, and more importantly when there's no competition to draw these students, you don't have to focus as hard and as much on trying to improve those educational institutions.
So we think that, private universities are good, simply by their existence, regardless of whether or not there are external benefits, that we would say there are, simply because it provides competition that is desperately needed to check public institutions.
But, what do we think are the true benefits a private universities?
So, we think that private universities have the benefit of being able to draw upon: one, a very long history that allows for more donations, what this looks like tangibly is the fact that harvard, yale, and other ivy league, and non ivy league institutions are often much older than the public institutions that we have, which means that there's more prestige to these institutions, and it allows for a larger conglomeration of great minds in in our academic spheres, and insures that there was a long, and illustrious, history of donors that are willing to give to these institutions, and these institutions are crucial for academic scientific research, and things that allow for our society to progress.
Many of the advancements, that have come scientifically, have come from private universities, and private research, that is done by those universities, because these universities have a profit incentive oftentimes, to be as productive as possible, to produce as much research as possible, to have as much academic prestige as possible, because this is how they draw both more more donations, and how they draw undergraduates, who end up paying into the college itself.
We think that, when there is this competition, when there's this competition, and a profit incentive that only private universities are going to have, within that you're more likely to get tangible academic research that has real benefits, things like, scientific progress, medical research that isn't driven simply by selling a product, but also motivated by being able to produce tangible gains for society writ large.
We think that, the profit incentive, that these universities do, is different from private businesses, in that they're they're is not simply trying to sell a product, though sometimes they will create products, but they create broad tangible advancements, that can then be applied to many different spheres of life, in different economic sectors, that will, in the long run, be more beneficial.
The fact that, these universities uniquely have the ability to draw in donors, in a way that public institutions do not, especially because they are a large place, for wealthy individuals to conglomerate, and therefore a place where wealth will often flow into at a rate that public universities simply will not have.
We think that, on balance, private universities bring more good than harm.