The free market brings more good than harm.
We think that in order to have this debate, we need to set aside what we think the free market uniquely brings to an economy, as opposed to different kinds of economic structure such as communism, state-run economic systems, highly rigid and regulated market economies and other things like that.
So what do we think that's a free market uniquely brings.
Firstly, we think the free market uniquely provides an opportunity for competition.
Whether it's an economic system like communism in which there isn't a competition for resources because there is combined ownership of these resources, or if it's a system like state-run capitalism in which the state controls these resources, and the state dictates how businesses are going to behave.
Free markets allow for the interaction between businesses and free persons in a market, in which competition results in you getting more and you being better off.
We also think it provides a financial incentive to be efficient and to be innovative.
We think that these are the ways in which people thrive in free market economies, is by creating products in the cheapest way possible, that do the most to advance people into the most, to set themselves aside from what already exists.
So, what do we think are three benefits that make the free market uniquely good and preferable to other systems.
Firstly, we think that the free market creates immense amounts of material gains.
The need to innovate is essential to getting these types of financial these types of financial gains, and it's no wonder why in a massive free market economy, like the united states, innovation is driven in this nation and other free nations like in europe.
We think that this is the case because there's a business incentive to be innovative, there's a business incentive to come up with new ideas and to come up with new products.
We also think that when you have things like government subsidies, this is less likely to happen, because you have less of a drive to achieve these things because you're more financially secure.
We think a world without free market has immense amounts of material loss that have real tangible harms to people.
Less access to good medicine, less access to entertainment that is able to bring together cultures and express personal beliefs, less ability to communicate with each other, which is a crucial ability to share ideas and become the solutions about common problems, and things as simple as housing that allow for people to be comfortable on a daily life, we don't think any of these things are as preferable as a world in which the free market had never existed.
Secondly, the free market allows for consumer protection.
An open market means multiple suppliers, and what this means is that consumers are able to choose which supplier they are going to go towards.
We think that while government regulations can do some good in ensuring that consumers are protected, we think that the government and government run enterprises, in order to cut costs, has incentives not to protect consumers.
So when a market in which you can go to any different person you would like to to attain similar quality goods, we think that this is a world in which there is an incentive for people to provide high quality goods, and to provide goods in which consumers aren't going to be harmed because firstly, you want to maintain your consumer base by not harming those people, but more importantly, you don't want them to shift to other suppliers.
Because everyone has this incentive, it means people are more likely to provide quality products.
So we think that not only do you get material gains and innovative material gains, you also get comfort and safety in the market.
And finally, free labor.
The free market economy allows for people to determine their own ends in which markets and which jobs they want to participate in, and they get to choose how they are going to pursue their economic productivity.
When people aren't directed by outside forces, we think that they're allowed to choose careers that are on balance more fulfilling than they otherwise would have been if they had been dictated towards those people or dictated to them.
Because people are allowed to specialize in fields that they already have passions for and interests in, because people can shift their labor market, go back to school, get new education and change careers in a free market system, and in which people can always improve upon themselves in order to achieve better gains, in order to make themselves more competitive in the labor market, people are more able to have control over their destiny.
And we think because of this and because the material and protection in gains that people gained, the free market brought and brings more good than harm.