Abstinence only sex education brings more good than harm.
In this debate, when we're talking about abstinence only sex education, we wanna be talking about it in the sense of a policy, as a broad prescribed thing that is taught within education.
We don't wanna talk about people's personal decisions, about what they choose to teach their children, but we're going to talk about this and the implications of this in a broad social context as a policy.
So, firstly we wanna say that abstinence as a practice is probably good.
Why do we think that this is the case?
Three reasons: the first is that while it's true that there are other methods of birth control and prevention of STD's, no other method of birth control or STD prevention is as effective as abstinence.
Abstinence will ensure that individuals don't receive premature pregnancy or receive some sort of disease that could have a serious and adverse effect on their life going forward.
We think that especially amongst young people the possibility of mis using their their contraception, or the possibility of spreading disease and not being mature enough to share that that information with their sexual partner, we think that these types of things are most likely to occur amongst young people and we think that as an educational system absence or as a policy for people prior to marriage abstinence is a preferable method.
Secondly we think that if abstinence only, or if abstinence is normalized, it creates a sphere in which there's less social pressure to have sex.
We think that in the status quo there's immense social pressure amongst young people to be sexually active, or opposing that, there is also immense sexual pressure to be to, that goes against individuals.
That shames them for their sexual behavior.
We think that if abstinence is normalized as what people ought to be doing or as what people broadly are doing, we think that individuals will face less pressure in their day to day lives to be sexually provocative and to be sexually active in ways that they may not feel comfortable doing but are simply doing to fit in.
And thirdly, we think that when one waits for marriage they are able to have a closer bond with the person that they wait with.
We think that when you have some sort of intense and intimate sexual relationship only with your married partner, we think that that becomes something that is unique and special to you and makes sex even more valuable when it happens.
Why does this why does this link to sex education?
We think that through education you can begin to normalize the idea of abstinence only sex.
Or of abstinence only behavior.
We think that if you want to encourage this type of behavior, the best way to do it is through the educational system.
It's through an educational system that says very clearly that abstinence only is the way to go and preaches the harms and explains those harms of not going along that line.
So even if you don't believe that abstinence is good we think secondly that parents should have the right to choose how their children are being educated.
We think that sex education is only a very small part of what people send their ur send their children to school for and we think that parents have a better understanding of their children.
So they have a better understanding of how sexually active their children are, they have a better understanding of what they want for their children and whether or not they want their children to be sexually engaged within society.
Because of this, and because information to these types of things, to how to use contraception is broadly available on the internet, in media, place, you can get this type of information from a doctor, you can get this information broadly from many sources.
Given that this is the case we don't think that schools are the only way to engage in sex education and to learn about things like contraception and therefore parents should be given the strength and the ability to choose for their children at what pace they're going to learn about sex.
When they're going to learn about sex?
When they're going to learn about contraception?
We think that parents, having an intimate connection their children, have a better understanding of this than schools, and as a policy we should respect that understanding and allow parents to make these decisions.
So because of this and because abstinence as a practice is generally and socially preferable to broadly having sex and encouraging sexual behavior, we believe that abstinence only sex education brings more good than harm.