I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should privatize water supplies.
Our first independent point is that water itself is a fundamental right and different consumption rates shouldn't matter.
So I think the reason that water is a fundamental right is basically just that it's facilitative to our general right to a good health and by extension our right to life.
These rights themselves are fairly intuitive that your life is key to accessing any other right or any other good thing in one's life so it should obviously be preserved and water itself is facilitative to this on the basis that it is a necessary thing to consume when one wants to continue living.
We think that you know obviously you can pay for water but rights probably shouldn't be predicated on capacity to pay for something.
We don't think that though that there should be different payment rates based on different consumption rates.
This is true primarily because we believe that there are lots of legitimate medical reasons that people might need to consume different amounts of water.
Different people's bodies are different and as such they consume different rates.
But we also think that charging per consumption is inherently regressive that a lot of the things that require more consumption of water correlate with poverty.
So things like having to wash clothes in your own home for example or you know doing lots of like I don't know like doing lots of tasks that involve large consumption of water rather than like outsourcing that to somebody else and also like consumption of water through like larger families for example that just have like larger amounts of people.
The billing is obviously on a per home basis so we think it's unfair to put a bigger burden on like families with children for example.
So we think then that a lot of the stuff is correlated pretty heavily with regressive politics.
Our second independent point though is that private water harms access so we think that a lot of for all of like govs discussion of like the private sector being more efficient and that sort of stuff there's a lot of reasons why the private sector is structurally less likely to provide good access to water.
One reason is price gouging that much like utilities companies like cable companies and internet service providers of the status quo near monopolies can create price gouging.
So I think obviously an extreme example of this is like ireland where there is literally one water company providing the private water for the entire country it's called irish water and obviously price gouging in a non competitive market can get pretty extreme.
But even with in markets with multiple of firms like the type of like competition that gov is so concerned with we don't think that happens and the reason is that each individual household only gets provided one water by one supplier generally entire neighborhoods are run by the the same supplier like with cable for example or with like internet or more appropriately maybe with like sewage and stuff like that when it's privatized because you can't get multiple like water lines connecting to your own home.
At that point then we think that there is outsize capacity for the firm to excess to basically exact leverage over the individual and increase its profits by just price gouging individuals recognize that this is a pretty inelastic good because people need water to survive.
Secondly we think firms have an incentive to cut costs this is true of pretty much any private sector firm that insofar as your primary incentive is to make money firms will often cut costs and cut corners decrease water quality in order to ensure that they make more money so a lot like the filtration and quality issues that government talks about probably aren't solved by private firms.
And third we think that there's less criticism of faulty practices in a world where it's run by a private company again going back to ireland and the status quo there is criticism of irish water coming from the far left but often that criticism is unheeded because it's difficult to criticize individual business practices when the private company can insist on privacy of its own internal practices public firms though are different if this is a publicly owned company and is run by the actual government then this is something that can be audited more thoroughly and criticized more clearly in a way that ensures better management practices.
Proud to oppose