I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish three strikes laws.
Our first independent point is deterrence.
So we think that yes three strikes laws are obviously draconian obviously over the top and obviously in excess of what relative you know harm is inflicted by the crime relative to the punishment.
This all means though that people are that much less likely to commit crimes crime is necessarily a cost benefit analysis that people make a proactive decision about whether or not it is worth it to commit the crime based on you know their decision about whether or not they think the punishment is going to be more severe than the perceived benefit.
Specifically weighed against probability of being caught.
So at that point then if you just increase the severity of the punishment you decrease the likelihood that the crime was going to be committed.
This does then mean that crime is going to go down pretty drastically because people are going to be a lot less willing to risk it when they know that these huge huge penalties are on the horizon.
Our second independent point is that it increases the effectiveness of rehabilitation programs.
So we think that broadly the purpose of the criminal justice system should be two fold.
One is to take dangerous people off the streets and protect innocence.
The other is to essentially rehabilitate criminals to make the individual people who commit crimes less likely to commit them again.
Deterrence can certainly fall into this category but we think that in terms of rehabilitation this is partially like a significant component of this is convincing the individual criminal there's a thing they did was wrong and that the need to stop doing that thing.
And you can do this either through a carrot or a stick.
I mean the stick is clearly the three strikes penalty.
But the other thing that's important is a signal.
And we think that when you have these really high penalty laws on the books that really cracked down on repeat offenders it signals to them that what they're doing is socially unacceptable.
We think that there is somewhat of a normalization of jail time and that to an extent people are you know comfortable with doing this because of larger anti-authority attitudes in society that people feel that laws are generally unjust in as such it's okay to flout them.
We think that if we put this really crystal clear signal in front of people that what you're doing is unjust and unacceptable then we think that people are going to be a lot more likely to comply with those laws and act in a more you know socially beneficial way.
Our third and final independent point is that this policy really facilitates the purpose of the criminal justice system in neutralization and incarceration of people that are violent to innocent people in society.
We think the principal priority of the criminal justice system should always be ensuring that innocent people are not harmed by the actions of criminals.
We think that this system does that very clearly because if someone has committed three strikes already they are exponentially more likely to commit a fourth time.
Repeat offenders usually at this point in their you know incarceration patterns have become ingrained as repeat offenders.
It is unlikely they're going to be successfully rehabilitated and at this point especially for violent criminals it's important to keep them off the streets.
To ensure the safety of other individuals in society we think that fundamentally this safety is an important right because it is facilitative to one's right to life and good health in general.
And as such we think that even if this is rights violative of the individual inmates this is a significantly more important thing to guarantee for the innocent people out there in the public.
Proud to oppose.