I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion, that we should prohibit human cloning.
Three independent points, first safety.
So, I think dolly stands as a pretty good example, that is dolly the cloned sheep, of why cloning generally has unintended consequences from a medical perspective.
That is, that when we clone something, its genetic makeup is often unpredictable, that the process by which we clone is still wildly unknown, and we have yet to make a sustainably cloned anything really.
This is an issue, because it means that, in the interim, of when we develop this technology, there will be mass suffering, just inevitably speaking, because we are going to have to learn how to do this properly.
So, I think just off the bat, suffering created by virtue of those the follies along the way, is going to be a serious issue.
But let's take the generous but I think that's even under a generous perspective, right?
Like even that's even if you get to the end, and I don't think that that's a given, that you can quite clearly wind up at an end point, where you realize: oh, this just isn't something we can do, this just isn't scientifically sustainable.
In which case, you have created, like, all of this suffering, for basically no reason.
I think that's a significant issue.
Second independent point is property questions.
So, I think really this breaks down into two ways, one much more significant than the other.
The comparatively less significant one is just sort of questions over who owns what.
So, in terms of, if I get cloned, what is like the legal difference between me my clone?
Presumably, we have the same experiences, we have , you know, sort of the same understanding of the world, and we are for all intents and purposes the same person, from a legal perspective.
I think that creates a question then, not just of like who can consent into what, and at what point do we stop being separate persons, did I like force them to consent into previous life choices, also who owns our stuff, because we are like the same person.
I think there's a lot of questions that arise here, that just do not have actual solutions, that there just isn't a way, really, for you to resolve these claims, at the point where you accept the two people as true copies of one another.
But, the much more significant way, in which this plays out, is the question of whether or not people, who create clones, have ownership over the clones.
I think the fact that society does, like, a lot of light footing, around whether or not clones are ethical, means that there's going to be a lot of light footing, around whether or not the clones actually constitute human life.
Given that, I think there is a serious risk of you developing a system, wherein the clones are consider property, and you have the serious autonomy violations upon the clones, at which point there is a serious harm.
Like I think, generally speaking, these autonomy bright lines can be extended to animals too, and that, generally, keeping animals in cages is recognized as a bad thing, and owning these things is considered like problematic, at least to a marginal degree, so I think when we do this with something that is approaching humanity, it is pretty uniformly recognized as a bad idea, and I think that that's a significant risk.
So, on our third point then, that is decreased diversity under cloning.
So, diversity goes down as a product of the fact, that you have like these reproductive processes of the status quo, that ensure mixing of genes, that is that no two humans are alike.
In the cloning system though, that obviously doesn't happen.
You have uniform genes being perpetuated across generations.
That's an issue for two reasons, one is that, I think, we just generally find diversity to be a good thing, that like distinctions in the human race just force us to come to grips with the fact, that not everyone is alike, and that there is a social component to it, but secondly, resistance against diseases isn't mitigated, when you don't have this like complexity in of like organisms, that is if one disease figures out how to beat a frequently cloned humans to like immune system, then like humanity is just at a seriously seriously tricky point.
Proud to propose.