I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should adopt libertarianism.
Gov takes kind of like a broad reaching approach to this and just pointing out two principles of libertarianism that are good so I'm going to take a somewhat similar approach and just sort of pointing out three principles that are sort of run in opposition to libertarianism that are good.
I'll interweave though rebuttal of specifically the things that side government brings up.
So the first independent point of ours is redistribution specifically of property and wealth.
We think that there is a fundamental injustice in society particularly modern society where there is massive income and wealth inequity.
This is largely a product of the fact that poverty often happens in cycles so the things that one experiences when one is impoverished such as difficulty gaining you know proper education and then by extension proper employment and then by extension wealth means that people who are born poor often stay poor.
This is fundamentally unjust for two reasons.
First it ensures that suffering is perpetuated upon a specific group of people often racially or otherwise ethnically defined in such a way that ensures the individual groups of people just by virtue of a single characteristic are disproportionately harmed.
But secondly it is fundamentally problematic because it ensures that the things that most people would agree are the reasons why certain individuals should succeed and others should fail such as like work ethic or intelligence or whatever other trait often aren't that much of a determining factor in who succeeds and who fails.
Even absent all of that we just say that it is bad when people suffer needlessly given that then we would say that there is a necessity for states to engage in redistributive policies things like taxation on the rich that then ensure social services for the poor to mitigate the cyclical suffering that is intrinsic to a capitalist society.
Our second independent point is regulation.
We think the state needs to regulate certain behaviors in order to minimize suffering in the world.
So specifically government brings up this example of like smoking in being illegal in bars in massachusetts.
We think this is actually a really good example of a fundamentally important type of regulation.
Regulations that prevent third party harms.
Gov is correct when they say that people should be able to do as they choose and have what happens to them as they please.
The problem is that the specific action that gov brings up smoking in bars is a good example of third party harms where the action I'm taking might be pleasurable to me but it creates harms like secondhand smoke and breathing problems for the other people in the bar.
So it's necessary then for the state to intervene and say as much as this might benefit you on an individual level you're hurting other people in a way that you're not accounting for so we can't let you do this.
This fundamentally is the reason why other more obvious crimes like say murder or theft are illegal because even if the theft is something that I personally find pleasurable the person being robbed probably doesn't enjoy it that much.
But we also think regulation is necessary because of information asymmetries.
For example labeling on food might be something of an inconvenience for food producers but because people can't be expected to just offhand know the ingredients in a twinkie we think it's necessary to allow people to have informed consent that is be capable of making rational decisions themselves by giving them the information needed.
So the state then it becomes necessary to solve information asymmetries.
The third principle is protection of innocents.
So we think particularly when gov brings up this argument about just like wouldn't life be nice without a state the problem is that there are powerful and weak individuals in the world whether that's because of physical issues social issues economic issues we think the state becomes necessary to protect the weak from the powerful to protect minorities from the majority.
Necessarily we think that the states reservation and capacity to use violence is something that is particularly important in ensuring social order given that then we think that this libertarian picture of a world where the state never uses force is something that will be disproportionately harmful to minorities who are incapable usually financially of protecting themselves from aggressive behaviors.
Proud to oppose.