I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should criminalize suicide.
First, some brief modeling.
We would say that the way we want to implement this is, first, just sort of like what would effectively be an in-name-only penalty on the the victim of the suicide.
We would say that, you know, obviously, like on the books, it would say, you know, whatever, there's a penalty for doing this, but like obviously you're never going to implement it because there's no living person to actually enact the penalty on, and we would say something on the family like, I don't know, like a small fine.
We would say this is only, though, in cases where they were aware that the suicide was going to occur and that they didn't do anything to stop it.
So obviously we would allow like a pretty robust appeals process for anyone who, you know, was either was not aware or, you know, made active steps to, you know, try to intervene and assist.
So, two independent points then.
The first is that we think that this policy will encourage intervention.
I think a lot of times suicide is like a really thorny topic that when brought up, people just sort of shut down and don't wanna talk about it, and this in turn means that a lot of people who are very close to the victim generally don't take active steps to intervene.
They don't really take the necessary steps that could, you know, show a person you are loved, you are cared for, you matter to people, and that can make the difference in whether or not someone does this.
I do want to underscore here that this is an important impact.
Suicide is a serious issue that not only do we hold human life in very high regard, so the death itself is obviously a significant thing to be concerned with, but also the ways in which it affects a family, the ways in which it affects a community.
The loss of a life of someone that is particularly close to you, and especially when that loss occurs in such a graphic and horrible way, is something that can have a very profound impact on individuals.
So we think then that when we put forward a policy that encourages active intervention and encourages active dialogue around suicide, we think that's always going to have a positive effect on mitigating the rate at which it occurs.
Our second independent point is that because you actually criminalize this sort of thing and you create this perception that it is a bad thing, I think you decrease a lot of the sort of almost facetious ways in which suicide is discussed, especially by some youth that that really links into the way in which suicide is stigmatized.
So I think there's like a really classic example of like teens just sort of flippantly being like, " well, if x thing doesn't happen, I guess I'll just like commit suicide, " right, which is like obviously this like ridiculous over the top thing that like sometimes is indicative of a very serious issue.
But there are quite a lot of examples of people just sort of like referring to suicide in a very flippant way that it doesn't because they don't really understand the ramifications of what they're talking about or because, you know, they're using it as an attention-seeking method.
We think that this is really problematic when this happens, not just for like, you know, the the standard reasons where people are just like willing to complain about that sort of dramatic behavior, but also for really serious ones that link into how stigmatized suicide is.
I think it's a thing that people don't want to talk about primarily because they'll often be dismissed out of hand as just being dramatic or over the top.
And I think when you engage in policies that mitigate that sort of dramatization in the first place the, you know, fake cases, if you will, then I think that, in turn, makes people a lot less likely to just sort of dismiss discussions of suicide out of hand and as a result, be much more willing to engage with people that are actually at risk.
This in turn, I think, leads to a better landscape for our ability to deal with this epidemic, for us to actually, you know, intervene in meaningful cases and really help people where it matters.
I think if we engage in policies that ensure that the people who are already closest to, you know, at-risk individuals are capable of having these frank discussions with them, that's always going to lead to the best outcomes.
Proud to propose.