I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban plastic surgery.
Our first independent point regards autonomy, and specifically why we think that this ban violates it.
So there are two general types of autonomy that we think this is violative of and that are important to preserve: first we believe that there is general autonomy over what one does in their lives and that we think that's important to preserve.
We think this is because individual have the ability to make decisions based on their personal preferences and priorities that the state simply doesn't know or understand.
We all put different valuations on anything from physical pain and long term health care implications to physical appearance to monetary cost.
Given all of these different moving pieces and the different ways in which different people value them, it is illegitimate for the state to make any sort of universal prescription on whether or not this is an action that can potentially be just.
For the individual that is.
At that point then we think it is best to allow individuals to make decisions for themselves.
But we think there's a second type of autonomy, specifically bodily autonomy, that is especially important to preserve.
One's body is essentially the you know literal vessel by which we actualize all of our preferences.
Without control over our physical body it is impossible to actualize any other preference of the mind.
At that point then, we think it's important to preserve people's right to do as they please with their own bodies, and specifically with regards to plastic surgery, we think this is a very direct bow to being able to control your own body.
Insofar as people care about their appearances, this is something that people put a high premium on and are deeply invested in.
We think it makes sense to allow them control over their appearance.
Our second independent point is that this essentially allows women to have ownership over their bodies that can mitigate the effects of a sexist society.
I'll get into this more in a bit, but I want to establish that sexist norms are going to exist on either side of the house.
That plastic surgery is not the end all be all cause of unrealistic beauty expectations, and specifically unrealistic expectations for women.
At that point then we think that a world with plastic surgery is preferable insofar as it allows women to take ownership over their bodies and escape the discriminatory structures that are often flung at women who are seen as less conventionally attractive.
We think there is any range of of ways in which women who don't conform to societal beauty expectations are harmed.
Through things like employment discrimination, through housing discrimination, even through discrimination in their interpersonal relationships.
We think that if an individual says: " I don't want to experience those harms " that's important to give credit to.
Because we don't believe that people should be used to social battering rams.
We'll get again into why they wouldn't be even particularly effective social battering rams in a moment, but we don't believe that people should ever be forced to be used as a means to an end.
That is to say that we don't think that you should consign all these thousands of women that would get plastic surgery in order to appear more conventionally attractive and subjugate them to the societal harms that are generated by non conformance, in order to drive those social norms in a different direction.
Our third and final independent point though is that we think that sexism and specifically beauty standards are something that is intrinsic to a patriarchal society, and that abolishing beauty and abolishing plastic surgery isn't going to change that.
Specifically we think that the societal pressures for women to change the way that they look stem from the sense that men feel that they can objectify women, that women primarily exist to please men and to you know make themselves essentially more conventionally attractive to them.
We think that those incentives and that sort of general social structure ranges from a number of sources including you know monetary, like financial power, political power, social mores, any number of things that are not in any way deriving their power from the existence of plastic surgery.
At the point then where plastic surgery's elimination doesn't solve for the root causes of sexism, we don't think that there's going to be much of a measurable impact on the general norms in society that are so oppressive.
Proud to oppose.