I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban child actors.
Three independent points.
First is that working in this industry at such a young age puts children at a very high risk for abuse.
We think that abuse can be a pretty broad term that applies to a lot of you know things that can happen to children but this can be anything from you know long hours and poor worker protections, all the way out to you know physical abuse and other ways of you know taking advantage of these children.
We think this is specifically true because there's a power imbalance between the child and the employer in such a way that makes you know reporting this abuse, whether it be you know personal or labor related, very difficult.
You know this is someone often that the child looks up to as an authority figure and this is also someone that usually has a strong working relationship with their parents because that's often how these child actors become you know decided upon as to who's going to be in the film or television show.
Given that, we think it's you know justified to institute a ban at the point where it is you know difficult to have proper oversight of these you know worker employee relationships and there's a high likelihood that you know something could happen that we wouldn't have a regulatory capacity to control.
Our second independent point is that the child doesn't have an ability to meaningfully consent into this work.
So I think when we think of labor generally, like the reason that we're okay with you know people doing something that is compelled by another person is because you agreed to it and you get like you know goods and services and in exchange you get money.
I think the problem with this contract being applied to children is that it's reliance on a certain level of information being exchanged between the employer and the employee that really can't happen with a child.
Obviously what generally happens is that the parent acts as a proxy for the will of the child but I think this logic that is that the parent has to make decisions for the child really only makes sense and decisions where you know you're going to have an outcome that definitely benefits the child.
Something like the parent for example agreeing to you know give the child vaccinations or something like that.
The parent can pretty reliably act as a proxy for what the best interests of the kid are but this is a very complex decision.
You know whether or not you're going to you know work long grueling hours on a TV or film set.
And I don't think that's a decision then that the parent really understands what the best interests of the child are offhand so at that point I think it's much more reasonable to just institute a ban on child labor in this instance and just wait until they're older to see if they want to pursue a career in this.
Our third independent point is that this particular line of work puts a lot of undue stress and pressure on children.
Working in you know the film industry is something that for one opens up individuals to a lot of media scrutiny, but it also opens them up to a lot of you know pressure in terms of you know long work hours, often demanding directors and producers, this is a line of work that really, really puts you through the ringer.
Even adults have trouble keeping up with you know the stress that's intrinsic to it and I think that that stress then and that pressure that's placed on children at such a young age when they're child actors has really profound impacts on them later in life.
I think you can see this pretty thoroughly with the lot of people that were child actors and grew up and now have you know somewhat bizarre adulthoods that are based on the lack of a childhood they originally had.
There's a reason that we you know have children go through very structured environments like school when they're young and it's because that structure and that you know that that strong support system that just doesn't exist on a film set is something that's really important to their you know development.
Proud to propose.