I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should adopt vegetarianism.
Our first independent point simply gets at the you know the actual basis of vegetarianism.
Then specifically we would claim that there is no ability to maintain principle consistency within vegetarianism particularly under the purposes that are put forth by side government.
The reason for this is that the standard that they propose that is having preferences means that a being shouldn't be consumed applies to plants and vegetables as well.
Trees for example will often like shy away from things that are threats to them they'll move their roots if there's like toxic chemicals in the soil.
Other plants are even more responsive they'll you know actively use defenses against sort of like any potential aggressors or you know predators.
As a result then if we deem that you know plants also have preferences there's just literally isn't a way to maintain this principle.
If any being with preferences he actually has like proactive rights that preclude it from being consumed then we don't think that there's any logical way to go about actually consuming things.
Like absent eating exclusively artificially produced goods which is horribly harmful for your health and probably not worth it on balance we just don't think that there's a reasonable way to go about being a vegetarian.
Our second independent point and our third independent point get more at the sense of what government's framework is that is they say that there is a proactive obligation to be a vegetarian and specifically when you say that there is an obligation to do something that insinuates that there is no other acceptable course.
So in our second and third independent points we'd like to point out alternative courses that meet a lot of the standard set out by side government that still you know actually ensure that you are maintaining principle consistency they're just not vegetarianism and as such are equally legitimate courses of action.
Our first a suggestion of these two is free range.
So specifically that is like eating animals that you know were not caged up by you know big ag or whatever you know weren't kept in like tight coops but rather allowed to roam free and essentially lived a happy lives while they were alive.
We think that oftentimes if you are you know going to walk away then from this right to life claim that the real issue with you know the meat industry is the factory farming aspect of it that it perpetuates suffering amongst animals because of their living conditions.
But animals don't experience you know suffering or pleasure post life.
So we think all that really matters is the lead up to the point of death.
If you know a cow gets to be happy for a couple of years and just roam free and do whatever it feels like and one day it's just like suddenly dead because you know they did whatever a humane way of killing it then that is a perfectly legitimate industry to support and we think at that point then that that is a perfectly acceptable alternative to vegetarianism that is principally consistent with the concerns put forward by side government.
The second thing that we'd suggest is just like eating bugs or some other lower order creature so specifically government's claims to where animal rights come from seems to reside in this notion that like anything that experiences pain or pleasure you know just deserves rights you know absent the preferences thing just like if it can physically experience the sensation of pain.
I think this is difficult to implement just because we don't know or understand other creatures understanding of pain like I just don't know what pain feels like to a cockroach but absent that I it it several scientific studies have shown that it is really unclear that bugs even feel pain anyway.
At that point then we think it's totally legitimate to eat these animals because if they're not even capable of experiencing pain then they don't fall within govs rights framework so if you just eat those types of animals instead of those creatures then we think this is a perfectly legitimate way of maintaining principle consistency while still insisting that vegetarianism is not the sole you know route that must be accepted.
Proud to oppose.