I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that all sex education should be mandatory.
Two independent points, but first, the model.
So I think generally we would do this through the national government.
We are fine dictating to like, municipalities and the like, that this is something that they have to provide.
There would probably be a guideline of things that are just like objective facts, so we would be comfortable defending a model that says you can't have abstinence only education, we would say that this is like you have to you know show what barrier methods are, explain how hormonal methods of birth control work, that sort of thing.
And we think that you can just sort of create a centralized guideline that shows objective facts about efficacy of certain methods and things like that while also putting an emphasis on other things.
Like we think we would allow at the local level to choose whether or not you teach things that like might be good but not objectively so, like say like pleasure based education.
So the two independent points.
First is safety.
So generally speaking, when people don't understand how a lot of things regarding sex work like, most importantly, birth control methods, we think that there are inherent harms associated with that.
Pregnancy is an obvious one, sexual transmitted diseases are another one, but we think also things like education regarding consent also means that there is significant risks of sexual assault that are intrinsic when there isn't that level of education.
We think especially with the way that like the media glorifies things that really do constitute sexual assault, like say having sex with someone when they're drunk or not capable of consenting, it's important to just tell people x is not okay you should do y instead.
So we think significant harms then are mitigated and avoided when the sex education occurs.
But beyond this we think the safety component is important because we think that this is something that people have a universal right to.
And this sort of leads me into the second point, which is that you have an affirmative right to know about these things, regardless of like whatever backwards notion your municipality has.
I think if you're growing up in texas and you're surrounded by people that think abstinence only education is like the way of the future, that that's a problem.
I want to establish that these things are often objective.
Abstinence only education, statistically speaking, does not work.
It's also probably rights violative in so far as like sexual expression is key to the actualization of an individual's identity.
So I think at that point we are fine with the federal government dictating to municipalities and states this is what you have to do because there's a level of objectivity and there's a safety concern that is intrinsic to this type of education.
You can like make localization or state rights arguments, I just don't think that that's that right is ever going to be significant enough to supersede the needs of the children.
Like especially at the point I think where you see that there are like very tangible harms like whether or not somebody actually contracts a disease or something of that like, you are just always going to see that these like state rights claims very much fall by the waysides because of their comparatively low magnitude.
Beyond that, like important to the states right claim, is that there is some level of debatability.
Like this is why we tell states that like they're not allowed to legalize murder because like murder is pretty objectively a bad thing.
And I guess you can always make some sort of like relativism argument as to why, oh maybe it's not, but to an extent I think if people are dying because they don't have access to certain information, that's a good enough justification for a federal mandate.
Proud to propose.