I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban beauty pageants.
Three independent points.
First is that beauty pageants universally reinforce sexist norms.
The notion of a beauty pageant which, to be clear, is almost entirely about like specifically women and which women are most attractive, is always going to be centered around the notion that there is a, some sort of objective attractiveness, which we think is a harmful norm in and of itself, but b, is centered upon the notion that women should find self worth and find their identity in how attractive they are.
Generally speaking, and I think this is an objection maybe to reality shows and contests of that like in the hole, is that we shouldn't define worth.
We shouldn't assign value to something that is inherently arbitrary.
That something like beauty is something that people shouldn't be judged on.
But furthermore we think that beauty contests reinforce these sexist norms in a pernicious way that is through the fact that they are generally fund raised and judged by men.
So the social norms that determine whether or not women are beautiful are, almost by definition, set by men.
And this is important because, and this is true in so many ways in society outside of beauty contests, these types of norms that are enforced, things like wearing make up, things like what like percent body fat you should have, or ways in which women are held down around the globe.
They are used as a tool of oppression.
And we think that beauty contests reinforce the norm that this is an acceptable metric by which to judge women.
I think that necessarily is extremely problematic and I think that beauty contests, the unique harm that stems from them, is largely rooted in the fact that we allow these contests to shape our norms of what is and is not an objective good or an objective standard of beauty.
And that's the problem.
Our second independent point is that specifically with regards to child pageants, that they put a lot of pressure on children and create a lot of like a large expectation of success in something that they have minimal control over.
So I think there's lots of examples of like reality like shows that track child beauty pageants.
Where you can see the incredible amounts of stress that parents put on children but also just the stress that is intrinsic into being judged on something that you don't have control over.
I think generally speaking this really, really shapes children's perceptions of the world from an early age.
That if you are someone who was raised up on child beauty pageants, you are someone that sees the world in such a way that like you don't have control over your own success.
Success is something that is intrinsic to the way you were born and that you can't really fight against that.
I think that's a problem for children because it shapes a world view that is necessarily pessimistic, but even in the most optimistic version, that they don't see that it's breaking them down, but rather as propping them up, it creates a generation of children that is prone to believe that they are inherently superior and I don't think that's much better.
Our third independent point, moving away from specifically child beauty pageants, and onto adult beauty pageants, is that it gives these people an undue platform upon which to express their views.
I think this is often seen through like their political commentary and things like that, on like social issues that especially through like the congeniality contests you see these sort of like proclamations of what their personal beliefs are generally on things that they have like no expertise on.
So like miss universe contestants commenting on like global warming and things like that.
And the problem with beauty pageants, because these people are obviously going to have these views one way or another, the beauty pageant gives them a platform that they don't really deserve in any meaningful way.
That they've done nothing to earn that platform that merits them having an important role in that conversation, and yet they are given it because lots of people just watch beauty pageants.
We think that's problematic for global discourse.
Proud to propose.