I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban sales of violent video games to minors.
Two independent points, but first the model.
So when we talk about violent video games we would define that as games that depict acts of violence.
And violence generally would be just sort of like enacting or like inflicting suffering upon another you know imaginary individual.
So certainly games that involve like large amounts of like gun violence is something that we would categorize this also games that glorify sexual violence like GTA like we're willing to cast a wide net with this.
But like anything that makes all of central point of its game play the players willingness to enact suffering upon another.
Particularly games that are willing to depict this without any sort of remorse from the player's character are things we would be willing to ban for sales to minors.
So really two independent points here.
The first being that it normalizes violence amongst the players.
So kids are pretty impressionable.
That generally speaking, this is something we realized with like all media that pertains to childrens consumption, kids really, really eagerly consume large amounts of media and it shapes their world view.
This is largely a product of the fact that when they are young they don't have an established world view at that point.
So their world view has to be based upon some sort of input that they receive at that early age.
And with less experiences under their wings, the individual bits and pieces that they get from the large amounts of media they consume are quite capable of shaping that world view.
This is especially true when that media has repetitive themes, like violence without recourse.
This is a problem for a couple reasons.
The first is that it reinforces adversarial social attitudes.
And what we mean by this is the notion that conflicts in your life are something that aren't solved by like diplomacy or just like talking things out, but rather with acts of violence that protagonists in these games, who have been wronged for some reason or another, respond with acts of mass violence and killing or at the most generous interpretation with at least like a lot of like punching and things like that.
While this makes for good game play, it doesn't shape adolescents perceptions of the world in a positive way.
It gives them the impression that the world when something bad happens to you there is someone that must be blamed, that there is something you can do that someone you can lash out at, and that will resolve the issue.
We think that, largely speaking, this is a big contributor to the unwillingness of most people in modern society to have these sorts of discussions and rather to be extremely willing to just place blame on other people.
But secondly, we think it just leads to people being violent.
That is that when you normalize violence to children, they are more willing to engage in violence because it is something that is glorified.
Our second independent point is that parents aren't a meaningful barrier to this type of erosion and as such the government has to intervene.
I think there's three reasons for this.
The first is just that kids are kinda sneaky.
That generally speaking, kids have ways of getting money.
They have allowances, they have jobs, and they can buy these games without their parents knowing.
So we don't think having parents keeping a watchful eye on kids is always like a meaningful barrier, right?
This is why like tobacco and cigarettes and things like that are illegal to children largely, because we can't expect parents to be like the end all be all of enforcing that norm.
Second, often parents don't know if an individual video game is too violent until they already have seen their kid playing it.
Like parents don't have the capacity to research every single video game that's out there, and as a result they can wind up buying their kids something they ask for and not know it's too violent until their kid is already played it frequently.
And thirdly, sometimes parents are just negligent.
Like sometimes parents just have like incorrect ideas and I think if you buy the arguments I've made today, there are always going to be parents that obviously disagree with me and at this point it's necessary to have some level of government intervention.
Proud to propose.