I'm proud to stand in proposition at today's motion, that we should legalize the usage of cell phones while driving.
I've two independent points, but first an overview.
It's important to recognize that, autonomy is a right we have as individuals.
It's the most basic human right that exists, it's the reason why we value literally anything else, things like our right to life are only valued because we see the ability to do what we see best, and enjoy that life as the reason why we value it in the first place.
So it's important to recognize that, that when we're talking about government policy, we should try to defer to as little restriction on autonomy as possible, while still maintaining reasonability.
So with the two independent points: my first is that there are legitimate uses for cell phones while driving, and that those legitimate uses are something that we should allow people to engage in, and secondly is that there are reasonable forms of implementation that can ensure that we go about this, in a way that is both not particularly restrictive, but it also allows people to act in ways that they see fit, and maintain safety.
So on the first point of legitimate uses.
Things like emergencies, things like a call regarding child birth, or a death in the family, or something like that, these are legitimate instances, in which people need to receive information in a fast way.
And I think it's and then to recognize, that generally speaking, the way they are going to receive this information is going to be either through a phone call or a text.
This is the way that people communicate in the status quo, and this is just the way that that information will be conveyed.
So, there is a distinct benefit then to using the phone while driving.
That means that we there is a reward to be weighed, against the risk of an accident when a person is driving.
And that risk reward calculus has to be done by somebody, usually a government agency isn't going to be in a particularly strong position, and make that risk reward calculus, because they just don't know the details of the individual situation.
I think we should allow the driver to make that decision, because they are the best actor to weigh the risks and the rewards, they understand: a, the scope of the reward itself, but also the risk, because it's not like they don't internalize it, if the car crashes the driver also suffers, generally drivers are injured in catastrophic car crashes.
So it's important to recognize then that is totally reasonable to allow the individual driver to make that decision of whether or not, there is going to be they are willing to take this risk basically, in exchange for what could potentially be a very very significant reward.
A second independent point is that there are reasonable forms of implementation, that don't sacrifice safety, but do allow access to the benefits I've discussed already.
So, one example of this is hands free communication, that people can just sort of plug their phone into their car, and they just have to hit a button on the like console, in order to pick up the phone, and then they can just talking into the speaker phone.
This is something that isn't particularly distracting from driving in general, it's not any different really than having a conversation with someone sitting in your passenger seat that's next to you.
So given that, it's totally reasonable to allow people to do that, there really isn't a distinct harm, it's not going to be this massive incident of distracted driving, where you're going to have an serious uptake in road accidents.
So, we think that the government then should just defer to the least restrictive means of allowing a benefit to be internalized, that is ensuring that people can access this thing that is good, that is fast and efficient communication, while doing so in a way that doesn't create significant harm, that is through something like hands free technology, and legalization of using that.
So, there' it's very easy to have your cake and eat it too in this situation.
You can get that safe implementation, you can have these safe roads, but you can also ensure that people have the autonomy and the jurisdiction to actually make these decisions for themselves over, whether or not, they want that fast and efficient communication while they're driving.
So as a government philosophy, it's important to back this idea, that you're actually going to allow to citizens to make these decisions for themselves.
Proud to propose.