I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should subsidize biofuels.
Two independent points, but first a quick model.
This is you know the way we would subsidize other industries.
I believe there actually are existing subsidies for the biofuels industry.
We would you know pay money to you know the farmers that produce these goods in order to you know drive down their prices essentially .
They would you know take the money from the government and they would factor that into their bottom line so that they can charge less on the product.
Two independent points.
The first is domestic industry.
So farming is a significant portion of you know the kind of economies that biofuel subsidies actually occur in.
If you want this to be about the united states you know obviously that's a significant portion of the economy but even from a broader perspective it's pretty obvious that you know a country wouldn't even be considering biofuel subsidies unless you know farming was actually part of their economy.
So this is important then for their domestic industry.
I mean the obligation of a government is to the people that live under the control of that government.
This is the you know basic concept that underlies democracies that people should have a proactive role in determining policies not directly, of course, through representatives but the the the the philosophical justification for this is that you want a government that acts on the behalf of the people and in their best interests.
This is the meat of the social contract.
So the reasoning then goes to stand that this is a significant portion of your domestic industry, that this is a significant portion of your economy, so you want to subsidize this to drive down prices and make it more competitive on the international market.
You know if people are more willing to buy biofuels from your country because they're so much cheaper due to the subsidies then that bolsters your domestic industry and that allows your country to you know prosper more.
That brings more jobs because the industry can expand, that brings more money to the pockets of the people in charge of that industry, it increases your tax base through tariffs.
There's all sorts of positive benefits to this.
So when it's something that's sold on the international market, and fuel is of course in very high demand on the international market, this is something that has really intrinsic value to your economy.
Our second independent point is talking about the impact that this has on the environment.
So one way in which this is intuitively true is that the the bio part of the biofuels, the corn, the manure, whatever it is, replaces crude oil or replaces refined crude oil rather.
That's important because refined crude oil has a serious impact on the environment both in terms of the emissions that it creates when it's being created but also in terms of the emissions generated you know when your car is driving around and burning the fuel.
These are really significant contributions to disastrous impacts, like global warming, so when we can substitute a portion of that fuel out for something that creates less emissions and, by extension, creates less of a you know detrimental impact on the broader environment, that's always going to be a plus and the impact of global warming is of course very significant.
This is something that poses an existential threat really to humanity and to other species by significantly altering the environment that we operate in.
Beyond this though, it's important to note that the environmental benefits of biofuels also stem from their sustainability.
Unlike fossil fuels, which are finite in nature, biofuels are something that can be created through organic matter, something that is you know almost infinitely reproducible.
And this is important because when coupled with fossil fuels that extends essentially the time frame we're looking at for when fossil fuels are usable or even in our dispense given their finite nature, and by extension buys us more time in figuring out green technology and getting that to a point where is a sustainable infrastructure to really run our world's energy demands.
For these reasons proud to propose.