I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize the sale and growing of the coca leaf.
Our first independent point and I think like we're gonna structure the three independent points as sort of the standards for when government bans are justified.
Our first independent point is that there are objective health harms associated with the coca leaf.
So I think an analogous example here is something like a like taxes on cigarettes for example.
Or bans on just like other more extreme drugs where it is justified for a government to engage in practices that disincentivize the use of a product if that product has objective health harms.
We think that on balance even if the coca leaf isn't as extreme as refined cocaine itself it is still something that's extremely harmful and somewhat addictive.
And as such this is something that objectively harms individuals.
But let's say you don't buy that standard.
I think the second standard we can look to is third party harms.
So in so even if people can consent into harm themselves we think that it is not justified for people to consent others into harm essentially.
So if an action generates harm for someone that isn't the person taking the action then the action should be banned to ensure that people aren't harming one another.
We think there are two third party harms generated by the coca leaf industry.
The first is the ways in which addiction can harm families.
So if an individual develops an addiction to a substance that has really profound impacts on the family.
It not only makes them a financial burden on the family someone with the coca leaf addiction will obviously spend lots of money on coca leaf but also it creates an emotional burden.
Oftentimes people who develop addictions are going to be adults just because these are people that are more capable of accessing the the substances themselves in the first place and as such they are disproportionately likely to be people who are responsible for smaller individuals.
And that in turn not only erodes the traditional family structure but also leaves the children themselves vulnerable.
We think that from an emotional and a physical safety perspective children need caregivers people that can look out for them and if that person is adult with drug addiction that role is unlikely to be fulfilled properly.
The second third party harm though is the drug trade.
The coca leaf is obviously instrumental in the cocaine trade insofar as it's the primary ingredient for refined cocaine.
Even if the coca leaf itself isn't as harmful as cocaine legalizing its sale increases access to the drug for foreign producers.
So we think it's important to keep the coca leaf illegal insofar as it makes it more difficult to produce cocaine and as such more difficult to export cocaine to other countries where it is currently having horrible effects and even internally it can bolster the cocaine trade within that country.
Our third and final independent point and standard for when a ban is justified is information asymmetries.
We think that a lot of the communities that consume the coca leaf are often like rural under educated communities that aren't aware of the health harms intrinsic to the coca leaf.
So even if people are allowed to consent into harm there has to be informed consent.
We only respect the right to make a decision if we think that that person is fully aware of the consequences of said decision but secondly we think that there's an informed consent issue specifically in legalization that is advertising.
We think if you legalize the coca leaf you open the door for abusive advertising techniques that paint the coca leaf as being significantly healthier or at least less unhealthy than it actually is.
And as such lots of people will then nominally consent into usage of the substance without understanding the full health risks associated with it.
Proud to oppose.