I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban beauty pageants.
So our first independent point is that we think this is a platform for showcasing female intellect.
Particularly in prior years, like historically, we think there's been this you know sort of this trend of beauty contests and beauty pageants being seen as ways for like unintelligent women to make like dumb remarks during like the congeniality contest and things like that.
In recent years however, this trend has been reversed.
That because of essentially a change in leadership of the structure of many beauty pageants there's been a shift towards actually encouraging more thoughtful discussion and this is become a more significant component in judging beauty pageants.
We think two things about this: first is that the platform provided by beauty pageants literally just allows for more people to see that there are very intelligent women out there, well informed, that often aren't even in that particular field.
Previously we have also seen very talented women not just from like a like the stance of like what they're saying, but also what they've done, that often a lot of people who compete in these contests are doctors or scientists or you know people that work for and manage nonprofits.
So often this becomes less of you know the sort of like myth of like dumb blonds and things like that, and it's more about showcasing women who are successful intelligent people.
And we think that that necessarily then helps to actually beat back a lot of the norms that are discussed by side government.
But secondly we think that this sort of norm development is important insofar as insofar as we have this contest now structured in such a way that intelligence is a component of determining essentially you know who the winner should be.
Who the best person is.
We think that norm being developed is particularly important insofar as it puts a higher premium on you know the actual intellect and the intelligence of the individual, rather than things that are you know more randomized such as you know how attractive they are or what body they were born with.
This leads me into my second point, that beauty pageants can often be a platform for disrupting societal norms.
I think one theme that we hear very repeatedly throughout side government's first speech is this idea that that beauty pageants existing norms.
I don't think this is true though.
Or rather that they create these norms themselves.
I think the problem is that these norms, these problematic norms about women existed already.
This is why there was demand to establish beauty pageants in the first place.
So we think at the point where government is confusing the chicken and the egg, I don't think you get rid of sexism by getting rid of beauty pageants.
I think it's articulated in many other ways, such as you know through television shows and movies, it's articulated through our political system and the discourse associated with it, I don't think you need beauty pageants for there to be sexist norms in the world.
I think what beauty pageants can do is change the discourse.
For example, in recent years a slew of non white women have been winning beauty pageants in predominantly white countries, most notably the united states and the UK.
We think that this creates a standard then to shift the discourse on what is considered conventionally attractive to include essentially a bigger tent.
Rather than letting sort of like the free market of sexism determine what that conventional attractive is, we can mitigate the harm of that by expanding the tent over time.
We think that beauty pageants in coming years will probably follow this progressive trend and most likely include winners to be women of different body sizes as well, and any number of other characteristics, and we think as that tent expands, we think that beauty pageants are uniquely well equipped to do the expanding.
For these reasons then, proud to oppose.