I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should privatize water supply.
In terms of the model we'll say that we are principally in favor of any really to defend privatized water supplies, that is, private companies that charge for usage of water.
So specifically transitioning such as ireland has from publicly supplied water, that is free for all, over to like individual companies simply providing water on a per liter basis.
So three independent points.
First is that this scales better to usage.
So oftentimes I think people get the concept that like, oh water is a right, everyone should have access to it and I shouldn't have to pay for it.
But the reality is that when water is a public sector good you're still paying for it.
It comes out of your taxes.
So the comparative then isn't a world where you don't pay for water versus a world where you do pay for water, it's a world where the people that use tons and tons of water are subsidized by others.
This is really important because there are some people that use disproportionately large amounts of water.
People with gardens, for example, use lots of water, people with really fancy showers that like have the ones that spurt out the sides.
This is an interesting situation because it's one where the redistribution doesn't actually come like from the rich to the poor to subsidize those that don't have the means to pay.
Generally speaking, it is the very wealthy that consume large amounts of water through like unnecessary means and as a result they are subsidized by people that use less water or the poor.
This is a problem principally, but also we think that implementing private water solves both for the principal aspect in terms of the people you know using lots of water now paying at a scale that is proper, but secondarily, we think it's useful in that it actually you know discourages that over usage of water.
So in california, for example, you know having those limits on water or transitioning to a private system would discourage the over usage that's currently driving the drought.
We think that then is a much preferable system because it mitigates the damage created by droughts.
Our second independent point is the efficiency of the private sector.
We think that there are a lot of overhead costs associated with the public sector providing water.
Things that are just intrinsic to government bureaucracy but also things like some municipalities, such as boston or new york for example, which are incredibly you know highly value labor like labor unions being involved in water distribution which also drives up costs.
When you switch over to the private sector they're much more willing to actually use policies that will drive down overhead costs because they're a company and that's their incentive.
As a result we think this actually helps people's pockets.
It softens the blow by having an institution provide this water that is doing it at the most cost effective rate.
That in turn translates into better savings for individuals, something that we think is broadly good.
And the last thing that we'd like to address, our third independent point, is that the private sector has the capacity to expand access to areas that currently are lacking good water.
So this is particularly important in the developing world where the government institutions simply aren't capable of providing water, especially to very rural areas.
This is a scaling problem but also a resource problem that these governments just simply just don't have the cash to actually reach these remote areas.
Private sectors then, even if they are charging and some people won't be able to afford the water, uniquely solve for this in a way that the public sector has routinely failed to do.
I'm not going to claim that the private sector will be able to provide water to everybody in sub saharan africa, but on the margins we think this is significantly preferable to the status quo where tons of people have absolutely no access.
For that reason, proud to propose.