I'm proud to stand in proposition today defending the motion that reality television does more harm than good.
Before beginning, it's important to note two burdens in this round.
First, that programming is zero-sum, that a TV station makes a deliberate choice about what to put on its air and that in the absence of reality television, something is going to go on there.
It doesn't have to be, you know, PBS or sesame street or something extremely wholesome and beneficial to society.
But as long as that something is marginally less harmful than reality television, as long as that something is even just a silly sitcom, something vapid like a show about nothing that doesn't create active harm, that's preferable.
And secondly, it's important to recognize that just because you want something, doesn't make it good.
The fact that people demand reality television, that this is something they want, doesn't mean that it is an intrinsically good thing for society.
With that, three independent points that I'd like to make.
First, that reality television is unrealistic.
Second, that it creates outside celebrity personalities.
And third, that it distorts the market of television at large.
On the first point of unrealistic nature: recognize that reality television is manufactured for product.
For example, the tense drama " big brother " is something that is selectively edited in order to create a greater effect for the viewer.
This is things like absurd situations, like " the bachelor ", where twenty women vie for the attention of one man.
These are manufactured situations that, even if they are nominally reality television, are not actually reflective of the world that we live in.
This is problematic because, especially for children, it normalizes the idea that this is something that we experience on a real day-to-day basis.
Unlike a cartoon or even a sitcom, it's not it's treated as though this is the real world, this is this is something that is normal and you should expect, that the idea of twenty women competing for a single man is a normal thing that you should expect in your life, that always being adversarial with everyone around you because you're literally in a competition with them, is the way we live our day-to-day lives.
These are bad norms, and when reality television is there preaching to children that this is the way you should live your life, that's a harm on society.
My second independent point is that it creates outside celebrity personalities.
This is a system that assigns worth to people like pauly shore, people that don't have something intrinsic that they can give to society, something that is actually beneficial.
The best-case scenario for this is someone like pauly shore, that's just annoying.
But the-worst case is someone that's assigned value, like trump, someone that is cast as a smart businessman despite a track record that is absolutely in opposition to that.
Given this, we think it's important to recognize that reality television routinely cranks out personalities that are assigned significantly more worth than their actual contributions to society ought give them.
Whether this is a small impact or a big impact, it still means that the world is worse off for reality television.
And my third independent point is that it distorts the market for other forms of television.
Other content on television is incentivized to conform to the larger norms that are established by reality television, things like the ability to captivate an audience to keep them glued to the screen.
These marketing techniques that reality television utilizes, this has a profound effect on things like news, for example.
See nancy grace, a product of true crime fascination.
A woman who, in the united states, made a career out of dramatizing unproved murder mysteries, things that were unresolved from a police perspective, that she dramatize.
This is a direct product of the reality television revolution, that other portions of television took their lessons from reality television and repurposed them in an easily digestible package.
This isn't something that's isolated to this form of television.
It's had a profound effect on everything ranging from children's cartoons to the day-to-day information that we accept as fact from trusted news agencies.
Because this isn't an isolated incident, you can't look at it as just the impact of what an individual show, like say, american idol, has had on a person.
You have to recognize that this is something that has largely made american society and global society much much worse off.
Proud to propose.