I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize cell phone use while driving.
Our first independent point is that cell phone use essentially qualifies as distracted driving and as such is a dangerous practice.
I think they are obvious egregious examples like texting while driving that gov says they're still fine with banning.
The problem is that they delineate this from things that they deem to be acceptable uses so things like hands free you know calling for example they're fine with that.
This is a problem because it's still distracted driving.
It's still something that puts your attention on something that is not the road and as such increases the likelihood that you're involved in a car accident.
This of course even if it occurs on the margin is bad because car accidents are quite dangerous and often hurt people.
So we want to mitigate the number of car accidents that occur.
At this point then gov takes issue with the inconsistency of the law that we're fine with other forms of distracted driving like say talking to the person in the seat next to you.
I think this is also bad but because it is literally unenforceable to decide whether or not an individual was talking in this person sitting in the seat next to them we should simply try to mitigate harm.
What I mean by this specifically is that when we can mitigate practices that are dangerous and lead to an increase in the number of accidents we should.
So even if we can't nail down every single dangerous practice because there are so many and some of them are so minute to make them impossible to really crackdown on then we should crackdown on the ones that we can.
Cell phone use is actually provable and can be seen from outside the car by officers that are passing by and as such we think then that these types of things should be enforced against.
Gov takes issue with the fact that there will be difficulties in enforcing this.
For one I don't think that's necessarily true.
I think it is easy to see if someone's talking on their phone because if they're holding their phone up to their ear or even if they just seem like they're sort of like talking into the abyss you can just look at their dashboard and see if they're using touch free phone.
So I think that there is obviously enforceability.
But secondly and this brings me into my second individual point there is a signal associated with creating this law.
Gov takes issue with the fact that this is essentially will disillusion people.
That it will make people you know unlikely to respect the law.
I don't think though that fundamentally the reason that people disrespect the law is because they see it as being principally inconsistent.
For one I think the reason for making distracted driving illegal is quite clear cut.
People understand it.
But secondly I think that the fact that this sort of thing can be legalized is a significant part of why people don't see it as a problem.
That if something is legal people often use that alone as a basis for why it's an acceptable practice.
So we think that it's important for the government to legalize this if for literally no other reason than to signal that it's not an acceptable practice.
We think that making something illegal even if it's difficult to enforce puts a social stigma on the practice itself and makes people less likely to do it.
As such then we think that it is important to do this in so far as a significant obligation of the government is simply to signal what is and is not acceptable even outside of enforcement capacity.
At that point then we think we can have a tangible impact on a decrease in driving accidents if we are sending that signal through our rule books.
Proud to oppose.