I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban school uniforms.
Two independent points, the first being that school uniforms are restrictive in nature.
This plays out in two ways.
The first being the free speech violation that's intrinsic to uniforms.
A lot of the times a way that we express our opinions and our speech and our beliefs is through clothing.
This can be through something as blunt as for example a t-shirt that just you know has a political opinion written on it or it can be through more symbolic measures.
A strong example of this was in supreme court case tinker versus des moines in the united states.
There was a student wearing a black band in opposition to the vietnam war.
This type of symbology that is something that we wear that's part of our clothing it's really important to our capacity to express our opinions.
Bans on that then are wholly unjustified because of how important free speech is.
It's an important mechanism not just to our autonomy and our freedom to do as we please, but also in order to ensure that our our governments and our society at large understands the preferences of the people within it.
If we don't have the capacity to voice our opinions there's very little chance that our society or our government will be responsive to our needs and desires.
So restrictions free speech should be taken very very seriously.
The second thing though under restrictive nature of dress codes is just the identity component of it.
So beyond capacity to express opinions through free speech clothing is often used to you know really is a component of who we are, that the way we dress is often really fundamental to our identity.
And at that point then this is something that's very you know fundamental to a person's the things that they want in life and the things that they they really are.
I think at a really basic level our identity is probably one of the most important things that we have.
Its you know akin to bodily autonomy.
This is something that is really intrinsic to my personhood and any restrictions on it should be taken extremely seriously.
This is something that as insofar as it's so fundamental to me it should be held in high regard, in the sense that you know the only reason we care about anything from a rights perspective is how it affects the individual.
So restrictions than on your capacity to express yourself and your capacity to you know act upon your identity are really serious and I don't think that there's a significant enough reason to support ban support these uniforms that really outweighs that capacity for self expression and to actualize one's identity.
Our second independent point is just the classist nature of school uniforms.
I think there's an affordability component here that often these uniforms can be expensive and this in itself is problematic, that you are telling people essentially and this is especially problematic when it comes to public schooling that you have to incur this expense for an unclear return.
This isn't something like a tax where there's like an actual social benefit that factors into it on a macro level.
This is essentially telling people that because of some like hazy instance of like camaraderie you have to incur a significant amount of money.
And that's a problem especially for poorer families who can't necessarily afford that uniform.
When you're talking about this as part of a public good that is at the point where we deem that education is a fundamental right for all children in our country it's unreasonable to put that financial burden on poorer families.
So this certainly has no place in public schooling but we think even in private schooling it adds an undue burden onto families still that are attending that private school for again unclear reasons.
I think at best these justifications are weak when compared to the significant strain that they put on a family that is incapable of affording that uniform.
Proud to propose.