I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion that we should ban boxing.
Two independent points, but first the model.
Generally we would define boxing by a sniff test.
I think that you know this is something that's probably hard to pin down, what exactly constitutes boxing, especially when it's a sport that is practiced in many different ways, in many different countries.
But I think this is something that when you see it you kind of know what it is.
That is if someone is punching somebody else competitively we'll we'll call it boxing.
I think for all intents and purposes we're comfortable with that definition.
In terms of how we would ban it, you know we'd ban it the same way that we ban other organized sports that we deem unsavory, so like cock fighting, for example.
We just like institute like jail time or large fines on people who engage in it.
We would probably like punish the like participants differently from how we would like punish the like organizers would be punished more harshly than the participants.
So two independent points.
First is inflicted violence.
That is the violence that is in harms and suffering that are just intrinsic to the sport itself.
I think much in the way that we see cock fighting as something that is like cruel and inhumane to the animals that participate in it, boxing is something that inflicts serious damage upon the participants.
Generally speaking, we're looking at things like concussions, long term brain damage, obviously just like surface level things like lots of broken bones and weakness pertaining to that.
There is very clear, visible, and systemic suffering that is intrinsic to this sport.
The problem though, and this is where people will say there's like a difference between that and cock fighting, is that generally supporters of the sport will say, oh well people like are actually consenting into this, they agree to engage in boxing.
I think the problem is that this isn't an entirely consensual agreement.
This is true for two reasons: first, as an information asymmetry, that generally promoters will paint a rosy picture of what boxing looks like to their perspective participants in order to get them into playing.
We think this is coercive though.
That sort of selling somebody a false picture of what their future will look like if they're a boxer is something that we are generally not supportive of and, more importantly, something that we don't think constitutes meaningful consent on the part of the participant.
But secondly, it's targeted towards people towards poor people and minorities.
And the reason for this is because they are in such a desperate position in their lives that they're so bereft of alternative opportunities and normal passive employment and prosperity, that they have to resort to this sport that risks their lives in their future prospects.
This is a problem.
We don't think consent is meaningful when your surroundings and the society that you grew up in and your lack of opportunity force you into this thing that will almost objectively make your life worse.
I do want to stress that objectivity.
Because for every mike tyson out there, there are hundreds upon hundreds of boxers who failed at the sport, weren't good enough, and only walked away with blunt force trauma and lifelong concussions.
We don't think then this is like a meaningful path to prosperity.
We don't think the false dream that minorities and poor individuals are being sold is worth the trade offs.
Our second independent point is the normalized violence intrinsic to the sport.
So this is external to the actual participants.
People who view competitive boxing, I think, see this and they see it be as something that's like being endorsed by mainstream society because of its presence on TVs and in like large arenas like TD garden and they say, oh this is a thing that's normal.
This is a thing that is okay to glorify.
And as a result, you see like small children are really into boxing and like the violence that it endorses as a result of it.
And as a result become more violent themselves.
That obviously has sort of like trickle down effects onto society all the way from just like willingness to have schoolyard fights, all the way up to like not look not like batting an eye when like other people engage in acts of violence on the street, things like domestic violence.
We think this is a problem for society.
Proud to propose.