I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish the anti social behavior orders.
Two independent points.
First is that annoyance really shouldn't constitute a crime.
And what I mean by this is that you shouldn't have like significant impacts on your life by virtue of you know just sort of being annoying in public.
Obviously fines are a you know a reasonable thing to exert upon individuals who do something like for example you know busking in a public place that it's banned from or you know playing a gramophone off of your porch but something like a noise complaint probably doesn't merit really significant penalties.
And what the anti social behavior orders do in particular that does constitute a significant penalty is restriction of movement.
They are restricted from going to places, they are restricted from doing certain things in certain places, and that restriction on movement has a pretty significant impact on people's lives.
For example, if it's a public square that they're restricted from, because they were busking in it for example, that's a serious problem for that person.
Usually these public squares can you know be a place of work or be an important thoroughfare on your way to somewhere else and if you're restricting people from moving to public places that creates an undue burden on them.
But secondarily, it's a principled issue.
Because public places are designed for the public, it's not just something that we pay for with our taxpayer dollars, it's also something that's really significant in its capacity to you know actually create a sense of city or a sense of place.
This is something that belongs to the public in principle because it's something that our government you know constructed for the people in general.
So when you restrict individual people from accessing these places for what are relatively minor crimes, there's a serious principled issue here.
We think that restriction on freedom of movement is a significantly higher penalty then is justified for the nature of the thing that they did.
Our second independent point is the haphazard enforcement that is associated with the anti social behavior orders.
There's really two ways to approach this, the first is that the the orders themselves are a bit bizarre in their you know assorted nature that it's just basically a collection of things that people came up with and were like, this is kind of an annoying behavior, I don't like it we should stop people from doing it.
But it's not very principally consistent.
It's like specific things people might do in public that someone might find annoying, like playing a gramophone off your porch.
Because these are such specific, bizarre crimes, we think that there's a level of inconsistency in the criminal code then because you want your criminal code to be something that is you know has some sort of consistent principle running through it rather than just like a haphazard collection of like various like esoteric things that an individual might do.
But our second issue here, and I think this is really a lot more important, is the penalties themselves that are so haphazard.
These are often determined in very individualistic you know situations by you know justices or police officers and that's a problem because it means there isn't a consistent penalty for an individual crime.
Part of the point of the criminal justice system is to say when you do x, y will happen.
That's the structure of the deterrent system but it's also the structure of the fairness of the criminal justice system.
It's only fair in the first place because we understand that there is you know a specific penalty for a certain crime.
You know the basis of cruel and unusual punishment is that you know only certain things will happen to us if we commit a particular crime.
And when the punishments then for anti social behavior disorders are determined on such a case by case basis you lose that degree of consistency, you lose the capacity for the criminal justice system to say, we have consistency in our sentencing, in our penalties, and we have consistency in the way in which we you know tell people this is what will happen if you do y, and that's a problem.
We think that we should have a more consistent criminal code and we should get rid of these orders.
Proud to propose.