I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban spanking.
Our first independent point is that spanking is an effective tool to ensure good behavior.
We think the reason for this is that spanking like any other form of punishment it designed to associate bad or problematic behavior with a negative result.
The sort of method that seems to be insinuated by side government is like scolding children or educating them on why a specific behavior pattern is bad.
I think the problem with this is two fold.
One is that it's not particularly universal that some children legitimately just don't care if other people dislike what they're doing.
But secondly it's often difficult to communicate to children in a meaningful way children don't have like the same social experiences and as such the same methods of communication as adults do.
So often these types of you know attempting to form some degree of communication with the individual child just aren't particularly effective.
Physical pain on the other hand is extremely universal.
People don't like being hurt and that's not difficult to convey.
We think that when gov tells you that spanking isn't effective you know because people won't associate the reason why they did is bad what they did was bad with the spanking we think that this is just symptomatic of people who don't couple these tactics properly.
Like we think it is important to have that sort of pavlovian aspect where there is some sort of like physical pain associated with the bad action in order to you know essentially drive home the point that the action was bad.
But there also needs to be an explanation.
But just because some people do this improperly doesn't justify a ban.
This leads me them cleanly into my second point which is parental choice.
So we think broadly parents have the right to make decisions for their children and decide how to treat their children on the basis that they are the best proxies for the will of their children.
We generally afford a pretty great degree of autonomy in western liberal democracies to individuals because we understand that they and not a government understands their best interests.
The problem of course is that children are often incapable of acting in their best interests because they don't have the necessary information to do so.
They haven't been around that long and so they don't really understand you know the consequences of particular actions or you know what third party harms are that sort of thing.
So we allowed parents then to make decisions on how to treat children and even in the treatment in terms of things like abuse we afford large latitude because we understand that the parents and not some external government actor is the you know best person to understand the specific context of an individual action.
This is important then because we think that the grey zone that's pointed out by side government is important to preserve because their proposed alternative is just wholesale disregarding and rejecting an entire category a perfectly legitimate action.
They say that there's no meaningful distinction between this and child abuse.
I think the meaningful distinction is a cost benefit analysis.
That is that even if there is physical pain and suffering involved with it the long term benefits of instilling preferable behavior patterns within these children ensures a better society and a better life for the individual.
So we think then that the parent is well equipped to make that individualized decision on whether or not this is something that is net beneficial for their child and as such it is unjust for the government to intervene and make that decision for them.
Proud to oppose.