I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize cannabis.
I'm going to structure this speech in terms of what the necessary standards are for instituting a ban or at least the acceptable circumstances but I think notably it's important to recognize that these are independent of one another.
That is these are standards that if individually reached justify a ban so even if you don't buy like all three of these standards any one of them is sufficient to trigger a ban being justified.
Our first independent point is that there is an information asymmetry intrinsic to marijuana consumption.
We think this is true for two reasons.
First is that in a legal market there are advertising incentives to create perceptions of marijuana that are unrealistic.
We think this happens with alcohol and tobacco for example with the large financial interests that are present in a market that is you know in such high demand create a situation where advertisers have lots of money to put into public campaigns to essentially play down the health harms of this product but and probably more importantly glorify its consumption, create entire subcultures rooted around the consumption of the material and link this specific item as a symbol that's attached to other you know things are perceived to be social goods.
We think this has happened to an extent with marijuana already in pop culture but we think that it has happened in a way that is mitigated.
If financial interests come into play it is quite likely that these campaigns will be exacerbated in scope and thus the health harms to marijuana will be significantly downplayed in a way that precludes informed consent.
Our second reason though for why that information asymmetry is present is addiction.
So marijuana addiction while not as common as addiction to other substances does exist.
Even if it is purely psychological.
This in turn I think eradicates what is typically considered to be informed consent because if someone has a physical proof like justification for why they continue coming back to this product and it's not a rational decision we don't think that that is meaningful consent.
At that point then we think that legalization will increase the number of people facing addiction because it will increase the ease of obtaining the actual like product itself and as such we think that the consent that is often espoused by side government as in their first point is unlikely to be particularly meaningful.
Our second independent point is third party harms that are generated by consumption of marijuana so we think that generally speaking when third party harms occur a ban is justified because even if people are allowed to consent into harm upon themselves you are not allowed to consent other people into harms.
This is because I don't have the right to essentially proxy your consent.
I don't have the right to make decisions for you and as such I don't have the proactive right to inflict harm upon you.
So we think there's two forms of third party harms that occur through marijuana consumption.
The first is secondhand smoke.
Much like with tobacco when people you know smoke particularly in public locations but even in their own home if they have other people they live with their health risks associated with marijuana are then also internalized by the other people who don't even make the decision to smoke.
We think this is fundamentally problematic.
But also we think that there is antisocial behavior associated with marijuana use contrary to government's assertions.
We think that people just sort of like milling about in public being high often not making rational decisions so possibly doing things that are like crude or crass that make people fit like very uncomfortable being outside in public these are notable harms that are internalized upon other members of the public.
And while marijuana use might not be correlated with violence we still think that there's a significant issue.
Our third and final independent point is popular will.
In most of the world there is not popular support for legalization of marijuana and we think that democratic government's first priority is the will of the people.
This is where they derive their authority from and as such if people don't want legalized marijuana there shouldn't be legalized marijuana.
Proud to oppose.