I'm proud to stand here in proposition of today's motion that the palestinian claim to a right to return is legitimate and justified.
I think before beginning, it's important to note a couple of burdens in this round, mostly that insofar as israelis and palestinians are equal, all humans have equal worth and there's nothing to make one more intrinsically valuable to the than the other, the burden on side opposition is to demonstrate an actual, tangible harm created by placing palestinians within israel, not one that is felt by israelis, but one that outweighs the massive suffering endured by palestinians in the status quo.
So I think, then, it is important to get into the two independent points that I'd like to put forward today.
First, the religious and cultural connection that palestinians feel to the land that they want to return to.
And secondly, the persecution that they currently endure abroad, the massive harms created by that, and why a right to return would solve for those issues.
So, first on the religious and cultural connection.
It's worth noting that this is a very historic land for palestinians.
Sites like the dome of the rock and the cave of the patriarchs are massively important cultural connections.
These are places that palestinians feel a deep and personal connection to in a way that ties into both their religion, their day-to-day lives and their history as a people.
This is something that is critically important on an individual level to these people, and it is their ability to go back to this land that they have such a strong connection with that is a massive benefit.
But, it's important to note that, normatively speaking, people have a right to a homeland, things like security and acceptance that are guaranteed by having a place your people can go, where you can set up your state, your you can act as a political unit and as a cultural unit, and you are not scattered across the wind.
It's interesting because zionism relied on these same arguments, that people have a right to security and a safe place where they will be accepted, and that putting yourself in one firm location is something that people have a proactive right to do, and we think the same should apply to palestinians.
My second independent point is that palestinians currently endure, and have historically endured, massive persecution in the areas that they were sent to after being exiled from israel and as a result, endure massive suffering: places like egypt, lebanon, syria, neighboring countries that they were expelled in after the war.
So, at the best situation is something like second-class citizenry, such as what a lot of palestinians have to endure in syria, for example, where they're not actively persecuted in the way that they were in other countries, but it's still not pretty.
But the worst-case scenario was just outright genocide.
Something like the massacres at sabra and shatila in lebanon is what the reality is for very, very many palestinians.
This is massive suffering.
This is massive harm that's internalized in a world where the right to return is not recognized, because the alternative to israel are countries that don't have political incentives to actually help these people but furthermore, actually have incentives to actively oppress these people.
Because often these refugees came in such large numbers that they were a voting bloc that threatened the status quo in these countries.
Egypt feared palestinians out of the reality that palestinians might actually become a significant force within the egyptian democracy and as a result of that, it was important to put down these people and deprive them of their rights.
The counterfactual, allowing palestinians to go to israel, is always preferable, because US clientelism with israel always means that it'll be easier to hold israel accountable.
There are diplomatic channels, there are international attention that can be placed upon israel and it is easier to pressure them out of human rights abuses than a rogue dictator in some other state that we don't have connections to, and that most international powers don't have connections to, and is therefore harder to actually make them stop engaging in problematic actions.
It's for these reasons that I firmly believe that the palestinian right to return is extremely justified and extremely fair.