I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize prostitution.
First, the model.
So I think generally when we talk about legalizing prostitution, we talk about it the way that we talk about the way we would legalize most things that were previously illegal.
So we would allow for the thing to happen, in this case we'll define prostitution as exchanging sexual acts for any sort of good or currency, so we allow that to happen, we'll presumably tax it as a service the way we tax other services, and we'll most importantly regulate the industry.
So this means not only things like insuring that prostitutes themselves aren't being abused by the people that like manage them, I think currently we would refer to those as pimps, we would probably take on some other terminology as the industry develops, but it also means that we do things like routine inspections for like sexually transmitted diseases and that sort of thing.
So we would ensure that this industry is something that is like clean, well maintained, and is like not subject to the types of harms that are generally intrinsic to black markets, but more on that later.
First, two independent points.
The first of which is that legalization of prostitution is important to women's autonomy.
So I think there's really two things under this and the first is that bodily autonomy is really, really important.
So when we talk about rights we generally talk about them in the framework of autonomy.
That is we care about our right to life because when we are alive we get to make decisions that maximize our individual pleasure.
We care about our right to free speech because that free speech then becomes a proxy for instituting societal change that acts in the best interests of our capacity to be free to act in the ways in which we want to.
Generally speaking, the ability to do what we want with things that belong to us is our most fundamental right.
And the most fundamental iteration of that right is bodily autonomy.
My body is the thing that most clearly belongs to me.
Like absent all bizarre definitions of what constitutes private property, your body is pretty clearly something that belongs to you.
So we think that you should generally have the capacity and the right to exercise complete control over that body.
But prostitution being illegal is a restriction on that capacity.
That is, you are saying you own something but you don't have the right to do with it as you please.
That's a problem in our eyes and we think that's something that should be remedied.
Especially because we believe that the individuals who engage in this practice are the best actors to decide.
I think op will make a lot of arguments as to why like, oh well here's a thing that could like go wrong when you're a prostitute, here's the thing that's like dangerous about it.
The problem is that we think that there is a cost benefit analysis here that individuals are capable of making for themselves.
There are situations in which you will probably not want to engage in this industry.
Much like like lots of other really dangerous industries, things like being a plane pilot or whatnot.
But we think that the individual has the greatest capacity to decide whether or not those risks are worth the benefits and granting them that autonomy is a basic right.
Our second independent point is that there's less abuse when it's not a black market.
So the current landscape of what prostitution looks like looks bad for a reason.
It's because there's no regulation.
Things like rampant sexual ly transmitted diseases, things like rampant abuse, both sexual, emotional and physical, of people engaged in prostitution is a serious issue.
And it's a serious issue that continues to exist because there are incentives within the industry to not report it.
Women who were abused aren't going to go to the authorities because doing so would implicitly admit to committing a crime.
We think when we legalize this though, we create an industry that is less subject to this type of abuse, that is less subject to the wrong doing that is currently intrinsic to this industry.
For these reasons, proud to propose.