I'm proud to stand in proposition in today's motion that governments have the right to regulate the internet and censor what they deem to be dangerous material.
Three independent points.
First, that you don't have an affirmative right to social media and as a result, there's no actual harm internalized by people as a result of this.
Second, that there's high risk activity that occurs, especially on social media websites, that is worth censoring.
And third, that it enables government crackdown on extremist ideologies and extremist groups that are going to create harm, because it gives them more legal latitude, especially in courts.
On the first point, that there is no affirmative right to social media: recognize that this is a thing that is new.
Life was fine before facebook or weibo or twitter or whatever social media you'd like to list came around, so I don't really see what the harm is then in limiting access to this thing that we had no access to ten, fifteen years ago.
The reality is that there are ways for people to engage in a day-to-day life without this item.
And furthermore, the unique benefits that this is supposed to bring are things that can largely exist on other platforms, things like information sharing.
There is already conversations, there is news media, there are things that exist external to social media that fulfill a lot of the functions of it that are considered vital.
So, limiting people's access to certain functions of social media isn't a massive harm.
It's a very low burden, then, to beat back these harms and demonstrate there is a thing that the government can prevent.
If this thing is worth worrying about, it's probably more significant than somebody's ability to use x function on facebook.
The second independent point is that there are a lot of very risky things that can happen on the social media websites that are worth mitigating the probability of happening.
So, for example, you can learn where to buy an assault rifle, you can learn how to build a bomb, you can learn new radical ideologies that create things like terrorist organizations and other groups that inflict massive suffering among large amounts of people.
It's important to recognize that these are things that are uniquely proliferated through things, like a social media platform, that are particularly capable of allowing people to become aware of these ideas and these methods and these ways of inflicting harm.
And the government has the capacity to step in.
The government has the capacity to be, " no, you can't talk about x ideology that says we should kill every member of a certain race. "
That's fair game because it mitigates the number of people that are exposed to these ideologies and by extension, limits the ability of these organizations and the people creating this harm to actually act upon the ideology and create the suffering in the first place.
My third and final point is that it enables governments more latitude in cracking down on these organizations.
So, groups that are particularly, particularly harmful, things like in the alt-right in the western world and in more the developing world, more radical groups, such as like terrorist organizations, isis, etcetera.
It enables the government to effectively crackdown on these groups.
Because when you have the legal statutory capacity to limit their ability to interact online, courts are usually going to take that as a precedent to do a lot more extreme things, something like warrantless searches or things like that that enable more effective fighting against these groups.
It enables you to actually step in in a meaningful way, that you don't get caught up in bureaucratic red tape and actually make that crackdown, actually engage in affirmative action against these groups and decrease the societal suffering that they create by their continued existence.
Look, there's not a lot of harms that are generated by this policy.
The ability to use facebook in x function is not a serious right.
The ability to talk about x thing on this specific platform is not a serious right, is not a serious benefit that can get weighed against these really tangible harms.
The types of tangible harms, the mass suffering, violence and death that is created by really extreme groups is something that's worth taking action against, and something that is worth disposing of a very, very tertiary low impact benefit in exchange for that level of security.
Proud to propose.