I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abandon child acting.
So our first independent point is parental rights.
We believe that there is a cost benefit analysis to be made for any instance in which a child enters the acting field.
There are obvious trade offs like you know career benefits, like the actual money that you get while you know acting, any number of things really that can specifically be beneficial to the individual child.
We think that these you know we think that these cost benefit decisions are both subjective in terms of the will of an individual parent and child, but also that they are different from case to case.
For that reason then we don't think that the government is well equipped to make a decision on whether or not an individual child is in a good position to you know actually take on this role.
We think that even though generally the way we consider autonomy is to allow the individual to make that decision themselves, the child of course is too young to really understand the costs and benefits.
Are such then we think that the next best proxy is the parent, and that the parent is most capable of deciding if this is net beneficial to the child.
This of course then policy , the policy suggested by side government is violative of that insofar as it takes that decision making capacity away from the parent.
I do wanna briefly underline something that side government brings up in that they talk to you about schooling, and how you know essentially that this is overriding their right to you know be in school at any given moment.
We think that the problem with this argument is simply that you know they do still have the capacity to be in school.
I think a good example of this is the harry potter series, where they just did the filming in the summer.
Also a good example of this is the fact that a lot of the time child actors are pretty wealthy anyway, so they're able to afford high quality education that conforms to their hours in a way that ensures that they're still able to access full time education.
Our second independent point is that this undermines the regulatory structure.
So we think that in a world where child actors are formally banned, you would have, you simply have people that are above whatever bright line you set, that just pretend to be younger.
So one historically famous example of this happening is mila kunis who lied about her age in order to get hired to work on that seventies show.
So we think that people will flap this because you know the acting industry is so competitive that anybody with even like a mild chance of getting a high profile role will always bite at that opportunity.
And the problem that occurs then, when you don't have protections for child actors, is essentially if they're doing it under the table then there's no regulatory structure to protect them.
Recognize that there's a different legal structure for protecting child actors as opposed to adults.
But if these children are treated like adults because they lied about their ages, they'd lose those special protections.
Given that then we think that all the workplace abuses described by side government get extremely exacerbated in this world.
Our final independent point is simply media representation.
That we think it's better for society to have more children represented on film and in television.
The reason for this is that we think oftentimes -tation of children on the screen is important for creating forms of media that can particularly influence children in positive ways.
So for example like PBS shows that you know instill positive values in children are very dependent on having good child actors that can portray these roles in such a way that the message of the program is relatable to children.
Given that then we think that the tangible benefits that arise from things like say public television and what not are specifically rooted in the ability to have this work force and as such it's beneficial to the greater good to have these child actors in place.
Proud to oppose.