The notion that universal healthcare is a good in and of itself is almost intuitive.
It's worth recognizing that in a world where people have egalitarian access, in a world wherein people with preexisting conditions aren't actively discriminated against, people are better off, people are treated more fairly, people have a higher quality of life.
It's for this reason that I stand in proposition in today's motion.
Two independent points: first, that insurance leads to a higher quality of life for the individual people who are the recipients of it, and secondly, that universal coverage is more fair, thus justifying governmental intervention for a larger societal impact that is beneficial to all.
First, on the notion of on insurance creating individual increases in quality of life.
There are three reasons why this is true.
First, insurance creates expenditures.
You can budget around hundred dollar a month payments, for example, through your insurance.
This is especially true if your employer is actually making those payments for you.
Even if there are decreases on your employer's ability to have some level of optimal economic efficiency as a result of this, it's always true that a recurring smaller fee is easier to budget around.
But something like a hundred thousand dollars all at once that people might get slammed with because of some horrible injury that occurs later in their life, that's really tough to budget around.
That's not something that you see coming and as a result, people are less equipped to deal with it.
So when we smooth out the expenditures, when it's small payments over a long duration as opposed to a big payment all at once, that always makes things easier for the person that is on the worse end of that transaction.
Secondly, it increases the individual's ability to be treated.
People without coverage often forego things like medications, because they simply can't afford it without the coverage.
We give the option then, with government-provided insurance or employers or mandated employer provided insurance, to actually get treatment for ailments, things that create massive amounts of suffering amongst people around the country, and as a result, we create a better life for the individual.
And thirdly is peace of mind.
There is a legitimate psychological toll to knowing that your next financially crushing experience, in addition to the physical pain that it might ensue, is right around the corner.
With insurance, you give people everyday people the ability to say: I know that if something is coming around the corner, something unexpected, it's not going to jeopardize my kid's ability to go to college.
It's not going to jeopardize my ability to keep my home or my car or something else that's systemically important to my livelihood.
And as a result of that, we think this is something that benefits the individual.
My second independent point is that universal coverage is more fair on a societal level.
Again, three reasons why this is true.
First is racial inequality.
Insurers often won't cover people of non-white people who have traits that are often coded language, for example, living in a dangerous neighborhood or comes from a family that didn't historically have insurance.
It's easy for insurers to get around these types of things because coded language is so hard to crack down on.
You but when you just enforce universal coverage, you can't get around that.
You can't like weasel your way out of just having to insure everybody in the country and as a result of that, we ensure an egalitarian system.
Secondly, you don't create an insurance system that necessarily discriminates against women.
This is both in terms of access to coverage, but also in terms of the fact that like being female has just historically been considered a preexisting condition.
That increases costs for women and again, creates a level of an egalitarianism that is unforgivable.
And thirdly, we decrease discrimination against people with preexisting conditions, like say, physical disabilities.
We say that these are people too, that these are people who deserve access to fair coverage and deserve access to the health care that is necessary for them to actually live a happy and meaningful life.
And as a result of that, we create a system that is more equal, that is fairer for them.
I think it's important to note that regardless of what the mechanism is, it is always good to create a system that insures as many people as possible, that creates a system that allows people to have a better quality of life.
Proud to propose.