I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban sale of violent video games to minors.
Our first independent point is that these games don't actually have a corrupting influence on children but rather are simply reflective of what is demanded.
So we think it's notable that this is something that children actively ask for that this isn't something where like you play cod once that you take it like a drug or something and suddenly you're like hooked on it.
Like this is something that people actively want.
I think there are lots of reasons why our society has you know become more comfortable with violence over the years, but I don't think that video games are one of them.
Rather I think video games sort of rose honestly in a time where violence was already sort of becoming more normalized both through waves of crime increases but also depictions of violence in films.
So I don't think then that this is really something where like video games were the driving factor.
I think you can think of like a lot of reasons why like video games are more participatory in therefore encourage it but I don't think that these are the meaningful tipping point.
If anything then, I think these video games are often an outlet.
That is that people will play these video games to you know sort of relieve stress and relieve violent tendencies.
This is something that's natural in people a lot of the time, that they have sort of like these inclinations towards violence.
I think these types of video games can be a form of stress relief.
So this is important then, because I think it's often difficult to parse out this like chicken and egg scenario but I don't think a, it's clear that we would you know actually solve for this rash of teenage violence by getting rid of these video games but b, I think it's actually quite probable that it might increase if we were to do so.
Our second independent point is that this is a patronizing decision by the federal government or governments in general and what we mean by this, is that we specifically are telling children like your tiny brain isn't developed enough to handle this type of violence.
I'll get more into the enforceability of this in a in my next point but I do want to just underline here that children see this sort of regulation and they see it as essentially the government not respecting their ability to make decisions for themselves.
I think especially at the time were a lot of children are like demanding these things, like in their late teens, they generally are pretty capable of understanding like it's not acceptable to just like run around and kill people.
Like most people see stuff like grand theft auto as like obviously being comically over the top.
Like this isn't how actual people work.
So generally speaking, I don't think people will you know see this as something that is it justified regulation and as such I think that a lot of you of the core reasons why people are you know less more likely to flaunt the law and less respecting authority figures stems from these types of patronizing regulations.
That people see the government as sort of unnecessarily meddling in their private business in ways that are unnecessary and restrictive and as such, I think that children are more likely to you know sort of flaunt authority figures and authority structures because of the patronizing signal that this regulation will send.
Our final independent point is that this is fundamentally unenforceable.
A lot of the ways that like a lot of video game sales nowadays are done through like online networks like steam where you download the games.
It's really difficult to verify somebody's age through these because all you need to do is make a free account and then just upload a credit card which could belong to anybody.
So this isn't like you're going to like the counter at your local video game store and like buying it from someone at the counter who can like physically ID you.
Like this is really just not something you can crackdown on and I think even more likely then is like torrenting or like illegal downloading in general, which is another common way of getting these games.
So there isn't really a way to actually implement this regulation and as such you don't get any of the benefits discussed by gov but you do have to deal with the patronizing signals I discussed earlier.
Proud to oppose.