I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban trans fats.
So two independent points.
First health and second signaling.
On the first point, health, I think its first important to note that trans fats are bad for your health.
They have pretty significant health effects you know clogged arteries and the like and generally speaking that is something that the scientific community is at a consensus on.
Op is going to say if these things aren't healthy people should have the ability to content into these decisions themselves.
I think really there's two problems with this argument saying that that cuts to the basis of why it's important to regulate health.
The first is that there are externalities generated by unhealthy practices.
That when you eat a lot of unhealthy food that has a you know harmful effect on your general health and then in states like most western liberal democracies that have some obligation to pay for health care for these people that are consuming these unhealthy things, there is then a burden on the taxpayer generated by those increased healthcare expenditures.
Given that it is justified for the government to step in and ban the unhealthy thing because there are third party harms generated by its existence.
But secondly, it's worth noting that there's not a reasonable expectation for the consumer to know about how extremely harmful these trans fats are to your health and as a result the consent that op will talk about isn't particularly meaningful.
Three reasons why this is true.
First, there's a financial incentive on the part of these food companies to actually campaign against people being aware of the health effects.
That can mean anything from just like not talking about it to actively engaging in PR campaigns that are like oh well here is like this one crackpot study I found that says that trans fats are actually super healthy.
I think something with like hydrogenated corn oil or something like that recently staged a like PR campaign to that effect.
So because these companies have so much money behind them, you know hostess is like a multi-billion dollar company, not to name the other like literally hundreds of companies that have a financial incentive to continue using trans fats primarily because it's a really cheap ingredient and it does taste quite good.
You're never going to have the expectation that consumers are actually fully aware of what they're actually consuming.
Second, is that people don't always know the details of the products.
So I think it's a pretty unreasonable burden to put on people to expect that they're just going to read like every label and be like yeah, like there's trans fats in like this this this and this and therefore I know to cut those out of my diet.
Like trans fats are so prevalent in so many different types of foods that I just legitimately don't think it's reasonable to expect people to keep on top of every single type of food that has this in it.
And third is that they don't know the science right?
Like you can show people this this and this is that harmful health effects that are associated with consuming trans fats but the reality is that like a lot of people just like don't know human anatomy super well and if you explain this in a way that is like sort of like what the truth is and what the genuine scientific findings are, that is not a guarantee that people are still going to be capable of making an informed decisions because they aren't like majors in health science.
They just don't know these things off hand.
Quickly the second independent point is just signaling.
I think that beyond the ways in which this is beneficial just to like the baseline health effects, it's important to signal to companies that people will not tolerate this in their diets.
That this is not something that the society as a whole is okay with.
I think by banning this you send a signal to the food market that look we're not going to put up with this.
We want you to produce healthier things.
There is real demand for it and there is real legal need to have these products more widely available.