I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should criminalize suicide.
Our first independent point is that it sends a societal signal that, you know, suicide is something that is intrinsically problematic about an individual and is, in turn, an immutable characteristic.
I think gov takes a lot of time parsing words and trying to find like the best possible way the criminal justice system can help an individual.
I'll get into that later, but I want to start by noting just like the actual like like the word choice surrounding referring to people with suicidal tendencies as criminals is inherently problematic, because it creates a larger societal signal that they are indeed criminals and as such, I think it has a tangible force in mitigating the attitude that society has towards , you know, people with suicidal tendencies.
This is problematic on the basis that it drives home this point that they are the villains in this situation, that they did something bad rather than the narrative that they are victims of a mental illness.
I think this, in and of itself, is a problem because we don't criminalize say, like, you know, even other mental illnesses, like, say, we don't criminalize like schizophrenia, like we say we can forcibly intern you in some places, but we don't say you're a criminal, and that word parsing is important because it shapes how society views individuals suffering from that mental illness.
This leads me into our second independent point: the effect that the signal has on the individual actually experiencing suicidal tendencies.
So we think that it signals criminality to that individual and makes them feel like they are a criminal.
Recognize that the system that gov talks about, like taking people through the criminal justice system and interning them in mental hospitals, that's not how this works.
In the status quo, there are lots of states that actually have specific protections that say that the state government is allowed to forcibly take an individual and place them in a mental hospital, absent of the criminal justice system, if they are significantly at risk of self-harm or harming others.
That's important, because that's the counterfactual to gov's case.
The system then that gov proposes, you know, forces people that are experiencing suicidal tendencies to go through a court system, have a trial, then get sentenced to a specific location.
This is all a problem because I think it drives home for the individual experiencing this mental illness that they are a problem, that they are a villain, that they are an issue.
And at that point then, I think there's a significant toll on the individual's psyche.
Lots of time suicidal tendencies are associated with a diminished sense of self-worth and self-esteem, and I don't think that the proceeding that is, you know, put forward and suggested by side government is going to do anything to assist those tendencies.
Our final independent point is that the criminal justice system is just bad at giving this type of health help.
Four reasons: first, there are norms in the criminal justice system, by virtue of what it is, that the people within it are bad people and need to be, you know, fixed, but not fixed in the sense that like we're going to treat them for mental health issues, fixed in the sense that we need to beat it into them.
Second is the infrastructure of the criminal justice system.
It's not well-equipped to deal with mental health issues, you know, this even in-house mental health institutes within the criminal justice system are usually not as like well-funded and as well-run as other, you know, private institutions or hospitals that we would propose sending people to instead.
Third is scaling.
Institutions that are dedicated to mental health issues often have like large amounts of resources dedicated to this type of work whereas the criminal justice system, because of their, you know, reduced patient base essentially, doesn't have the scale to deal with this.
And fourth is the environment you're operating in.
That is that, you know, a prison or even a state-run mental health prison isn't a good place to recover.
You're surrounded often by disruptive, unruly and even violent individuals, and a, you know, scenario that makes it very difficult to stage any sort of meaningful recovery.
Proud to oppose.