I stand in proud proposition of lifting the UN ban on the production of coca beans.
And specifically coca leaves, not cocaine.
I would model this as the UN lifting its ban on this production, so that countries can act independently, and not have this international order bearing down upon their decision making.
I would say that, most nations probably won't take this opportunity.
Most western countries like say, the UK or the US, probably wouldn't take the option of legalizing the production of coca leaves in their country.
We would say that only countries that really have the cultural significance attached to the coca leaf, like bolivia or peru, would actually take that option, and go forward with the legalization of it.
Three independent points for why the UN ought do this.
First, cultural rights, second the pernicious nature of black market, and third the economies of struggling nations.
First, on the cultural rights.
It;s important to recognize that, the two countries that are at stake here, bolivia and peru, are countries that have deep cultural connections to the coca leaf, and it's important to recognize that, by extension, they have the right to act upon their cultural history, and have that autonomy.
The UN is not supposed to be an organization that dictates culture, or norms to other groups.
It is supposed to be norms that are not universal.
The UN's position is to alleviate suffering, and alleviate it in ways that are objective.
Things like, genocide, things like mass harm that is objective, but when when the lion's share of people, within an individual country, consent into the existence of an industry, that country should have the right to have that happen.
The UN should act as a check on authoritarianism, but not on the democratic process.
So, it's important to give the right of these countries to actually have this industry, if they so desire.
It's also important to recognize the international legitimacy harms that stem from this.
That bolivia and peru's boldness to stand up against the international regime, and ask for permission to do what they please, leads them to unfair ridicule on an international stage, and that undermines their presence in things like trade negotiations, in ways that have very tangible harms on their citizens.
We think that, taking away this international regime and getting rid of this unfair sanctions on them, is always going to be preferable then.
Secondly black markets, the black market exists in these countries as, essentially a given, because there is demand for the product, so people will grow it, one way or another.
This is especially true in weak states, like bolivia and peru.
They just don't have the regulatory capacity to crackdown on this ruthlessly.
This has three problems then, that are generated when the black market exists, that are comparative to a world in which it is legalized.
First is less regulation.
We would say that like, less regulation is always true, when the government just doesn't have the ability to go into shops, and make sure that they are up to code and complying.
That translates into safety harm for the people.
Secondly, you can't tax the product, because it is not being sold in legal markets, and as a result the social safety net suffers, things like welfare, or education, can always be better funded in a world where this is legal.
Thirdly is cartel violence that, because there is no regulation, powerful actors have an incentive to grab upon this cash rich industry that is not being taxed, and as a result violence, like what you see with the marijuana industry, and cocaine industries in mexico, is sure to ensue.
We always mitigate the harms of that in a world where legal markets are permitted to thrive.
My last independent point is the economic benefits of legalization.
I would say that the you increase industry, in a struggling economy, by gaining this.
You just create a new industry that provides, not just jobs, but also a multiplier effect in that people, you know, have those jobs, get the money from those jobs, go buy other things in the economy.
You know, this is how economies work, that the economy can blossom, when you add new industry, and when you add new employment.
Given that, we think there is just an objective benefit to giving the economy this stimulus, this boost that will allow it to progress, especially in a country like bolivia, or peru, that is struggling economically right now.
I think it's important to recognize autonomy in this debate, because that's the crucial question here.
It's important to recognize that countries, like bolivia and peru, have the right to say: this is what we want, this is what our people demand, and this is what we're going to do.
Proud to propose.