I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban trans fats.
Our first independent point is consumer choice.
Gov spends a lot of time talking about how there isn't a reasonable expectation that consumers can be aware of this item in their food and as such can't give conformed consent into consuming it.
I think this is inherently problematic for two reasons.
First, there is obviously a counter-factual world where you just put labeling requirements on food.
That you know food has to display prominently if it contains trans fats and if so how much.
But secondly I think they're just is general awareness of trans fats being bad like it is like the typical bogeyman of unhealthy foods that people are generally pretty aware that trans fats are bad for you.
So I think anyone that genuinely cares about what they're consuming and I think there are plenty of people who just legitimately don't will be able to just turn the package around and look at the labeling on the back.
The reality is that lots of people are totally comfortable eating trans fats.
I for example am totally fine with eating trans fats.
So at that point then we don't think that it's reasonable for the government to say that that's an illegitimate decision.
This is true for two reasons.
First people can make subjective decisions based on whether harms outweigh benefits.
So if I am aware as I am that trans fats are bad for me but I really really like the way that trans fats taste that's a legitimate decision for me to make.
I think the reason why we allow people to have some sort of like individual freedom and make their own decisions is because they understand their personal cost benefit analysis better than some like external government bureaucrat does.
At that point then we think we just have like a happier world when people can make their own decisions on whether or not to consume trans fats.
But secondly we think it's important to preserve this capacity for people to make their own decisions because it's key to autonomy that is to say even if this is like a perfectly illegitimate decision and there is no justifiable way for you to say oh x is better than y it's still important from both an optical and a rights perspective to let people consent into harm.
That is to say that if you tell people no that's bad you're not allowed to do it even when there isn't third party harms people will not only distrust the state but they will become actively opposed to the notion that the state has any right to do this.
We think at that point the backlash to broader regulatory structures probably in the long term because of its political implications outweighs the individual benefits of this one specific policy.
Our second independent point is affordability.
So we think that trans fats are you know for the exact reason that they are so common in foods cheap to produce and as such they drive down the cost of food.
I think the problem with this then is that if you tell people they can't put this cheap thing in food to make it taste better they're going to do one of two things.
Either one they're just gonna make worst food in which people will be less happy or they're going to make more expensive food by replacing it with a healthier but more expensive ingredient.
That's a problem then for access to food because as problematic as it is that poor people are often relegated to eat unhealthy food it is better than absolutely breaking the bank.
There's a decision in the status quo between whether or not you want to break the bank on healthy food or live within you know what you're capable of affording at the time by eating unhealthy food.
Getting rid of that decision then puts a lot of people in a difficult position by essentially forcing them to increase their yet weekly expenditures on food.
Our third and final independent point is just the optics of this.
We think particularly with organizations like the FDA there's a lot of approval of a things that are definitely worse for your health chemicals for example in our foods and we think that specifically cracking down on trans fats increases the notion that the FDA is just like this horribly inconsistent bureaucratic organization plagued by financial interests that doesn't actually look out for people but rather just listens to like complaints selectively.
At that point then we think the principal in a consistency that this policy would reaffy is problematic in and of itself.
Proud to oppose.