I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize prostitution.
Our first independent point is that the market would be inherently coercive.
So prostitution being a financial industry is something that because you are asking individuals to sell their bodies would be particularly attractive to poor individuals who are more in need of capital.
This is a problem because we believe then that the industry and its harms that we'll get into later on are disproportionately then focused upon poorer individuals.
This is problematic first because prostitution is something that harms future prospects.
It is you know difficult to get a job after prostitution when this is something they you know you have done before because it is heavily stigmatized.
This is also something that has a disproportionate harm on someone's you know bodily health because they're at the harms that'll get into in a moment.
So when those harms then are disproportionately focused on a specific subset of the population we believe that to be fundamentally unfair and unjust.
Our second independent point is that the industry itself is inherently harmful and we don't think the people are going to be properly informed going into it.
So I think the information stuff comes out of largely the coercion point that is that you know because there is a financial incentive for brothel owners to coerce people into entering this market they're unlikely to receive the information necessary to have informed consent into the practice.
But in terms of the harms that are actually internalized by people that are involved in this industry we think for one STDs is obviously up there as a clear thing also increased risk I think you know pregnancy and we think that there's other things like in terms of your employment prospects in terms of housing discrimination in terms of just the social stigma against your reputation now.
We think there are a lot of really intrinsic harms that people don't always internalize because this isn't an industry that people are particularly familiar with.
It's something that's particularly underground.
That's not something that changes when you you know legalize the industry I think amsterdam is a good example the fact that the lay person on the street still doesn't have a very detailed understanding of what it's like to be a prostitute.
And at that point then because you're legalizing the industry you're expanding the number of people exposed to that harm.
This then is a significant issue that justifies a ban.
Our third and final independent point is that legalization of prostitution normalizes the commodification of human bodies.
We think there's two problems with this.
The first is that we think it is likely that once this is normalized that more people will become essentially comfortable with these types of industries things like organ donation or other ways in which a monetary price is put on a component of the human body.
We think will become more common and more likely in a world where this norm has been set.
So we think that in and of itself is problematic.
But we think that there's also a feminist spin on this that specifically the commodification of disproportionately female bodies will result in more degrading attitudes towards women and more problematic attitudes in society at large.
We think that largely women are already hyper sexualized in the media and in common discourse and legalizing prostitution an industry that is disproportionately populated by women will not help that.
Rather it will simply perpetuate the interpretation of women's bodies as objects and as the property of men.
And as such we think that there will be extremely disproportionate harms on that subset of the population.
Proud to oppose.