I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should ban cosmetic surgery.
Our first independent point, which I think really cuts to the meat of almost everything that government tells you, is that specifically banning cosmetic surgery on the basis that it perpetuates misogynist norms is itself blaming women and victims broadly for the you know damage that is inflicted upon them.
When we hear from government specifically the line that we need to ban cosmetic surgery you know because this is this socially harmful practice that you know drives artificial beauty norms, I think it misses the fundamental point that the problem with cosmetic surgery isn't the act of getting cosmetic surgery.
It's, generally speaking, the norm that there is, a, a specific beauty standard that individuals must be held to, and b, the even broader standard that men in general get to dictate beauty standards that women that then conform to.
I don't think banning cosmetic surgery solves these big macro issues.
At the end of the day, misogyny is a quite you know flexible weapon and I don't think that banning cosmetic surgery is going to have much of an impact.
If you see cosmetic surgery as just a means by which men exert their will upon women and women's bodies, then there are plenty of other mechanisms for doing that.
Given that, it seems unlikely that plastic surgery bans will actually solve this issue, rather it will simply place the blame and the onus of responsibility for for for perpetuation of problematic norms on the victims themselves and drive home the notion that sort of like this stereotype of like the you know vapid blonde women or whatever is really the one to blame for misogyny when nothing could be further from the truth.
Our second independent point is that simply you know bodily autonomy is an important consideration and that people should have the right to do as they please with their bodies.
Autonomy is quite a fundamental right.
The reason we care about other rights is simply because we you know want people to have the capacity to do as they please with their lives and do what makes them happiest.
This is because people are you know basically the best proxies for their own you know will and their own preferences and if we seek to make a world where everyone is as happy as possible then the best way to do that is to allow people to do what makes them individually happy rather than dictating that perception of the good life on to them.
Given that, it seems unnecessary to tell people that there is no acceptable justification for getting you know any sort of plastic surgery.
We think that even absent misogynist norms there are just perfectly you know reasonable examples of people who are just not comfortable in their own body and want some sort of change to it.
We think given that, that there are perfectly legitimate reasons for obtaining plastic surgery that are not under the purview of what the government should dictate to individuals is and is not socially acceptable.
Our third and final independent point is that there are legitimate medical needs for for plastic surgery.
I think it's quite interesting that gov never really touches upon this but there are tons of types of plastic surgery that have absolutely nothing to do with like the nose jobs and what not that are you know brought up routinely throughout these types of debates.
Something like a car crash victim getting facial reconstruction.
This is like a legitimate medically important justification for getting plastic surgery so it seems ridiculous then to ban this sort of plastic surgery on the basis that it perpetuates misogynist norms.
Even other things that are linked specifically into beauty standards can have different justifications.
For example, liposuction, while it can be based in misogynist norms, can also be completely of the volition of someone who simply wants liposuction for health related reasons.
Proud to oppose.