I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt zero tolerance policies in high schools.
We will model this is high schools.
Actually to schools in general and we'll say that specifically what we want to apply this to is things like weapons and drugs.
So generally speaking we will take a reasonable stance on this that no like symbology or anything like that would fall under it.
We are only talking about the physical item and we will take anything that is basically I will do a sniff test on what constitutes severity, but for drugs we would certainly say anything nonprescription so we're obviously not going to you know kick you out of school for like prescription medicine or anything like that.
With regards to weapons we would say we'll just sort of take like a firm line of things like knives or guns or things like that.
Things that are very clearly weapons and don't serve some sort of alternative purpose.
So three independent points.
First is that there isn't an acceptable reason for having these types of things on you.
Like I think we make exceptions for medicines, like that is a reasonable exception.
But generally speaking when we are talking about like adolescents holding guns there just isn't a legitimate justification for that.
There is absolutely no reason why is that that is a thing that you would have in a school and I think if there is any sort of like fringe marginal case that op can think of as to like, oh I don't know like maybe they need it for like like legitimately just cannot think of a reason and I think that serves as a testament to like how marginal the benefits of allowing people to have these types of things are on them are.
Our second independent point is externalities generated by possession of these items.
So really there are two important things that you have in school.
The first is that we have a school that operates well, it does the things that supposed to do like teaching students and things like that.
The second is that it has to provide a space where those operations can occur safely, where people feel comfortable learning, where people are not distracted from learning.
And we think the weapons and drugs are pretty harmful upon those goals.
That generally speaking if you are aware that your classmates have like weapons on them, like they are carrying guns and knives and things, that's not conducive to a healthy learning environment.
Likewise we think that like allowing students to like be high in class is also not particularly conducive to a learning environment.
So generally speaking it is bad then when the school is incapable of serving its primary purpose because of the existence of these items and we are very, very comfortable taking a firm stance against them.
Our third independent point is that it decreases subjectivity and enforcement.
So this is the particularly important component of zero tolerance policies is that they are not done on a case by case basis.
That if you are found with this item like the punishment is enforced.
Whether that's like expulsion or suspension or whatever, it is enforced no matter what and there are no exceptions to this.
So I think a really common example of where that subjectivity is harmful in the status quo is like jocks for example.
So like if you're like on a sports team and your coach catches you with this, the school is likely to just give you a slap on the wrist and say don't do it again.
Whereas if you don't have that type of good standing with the school, then you are a lot less likely to actually get that easy sentence.
We think that's bad because we think that generally speaking a crime or any sort of infraction like the severity of that infraction is not dependent on who you are as an individual.
That you don't deserve more punishment just because you're like not an athlete.
So when you take out that subjectivity and you take out the capacity for administrators and for teachers and coaches or whoever to be extremely subjective and case by case with their enforcement of rules, we think that creates a fairer system that is generally better towards its students.
Proud to propose.