I am proud to oppose the motion that we should legalize public nudity.
So our first independent point is that there's a severe amount of public discomfort associated with public nudity.
Gov makes a point of repeatedly stating, you know, this is something that is illogical to be upset about, it's natural, it's the human body.
So I want to be clear here: we don't think that a viewpoint has to be logical in order for it to be respected.
The reason for this is that the discomfort people associate with seeing other people nude in public is, while certainly illogical, is rooted in deep-held social mores that manifests itself as actual tangible suffering, that is to say that people are actually like, in a tangible way, inconvenienced, made uncomfortable, and as thus, are unhappy with seeing public nudity.
We don't think that there's really any individual like objective conception of what is or is not just, what is or is not acceptable.
This is always going to be something that's determined by your culture.
This is always going to be something that's fairly relative.
At that point, then, we think that it's important to recognize that there are actual tangible harms associated with public nudity, even if it is illogical at its core to be have that problem.
Given that then, we think there's a significant issue of consent.
Generally speaking, people can consent out of harms.
You can make a decision about whether or not to do something and as such, we like to take a pretty liberal approach to ensuring that people can do something if they want to do it.
The problem is that you also need to be able to consent out of that behavior, that if, you know, that's just not for you, you need to be able to not experience the harms you associate with it.
And we think the issue with public nudity, that is, compared to private nudity in one's own home or whatever, is that an individual walking down the street, who sees someone that's nude and is made extremely uncomfortable by that sight, can't meaningfully consent out of that interaction.
They can't say, " oh, I don't want to see nude people, so I'm just never going to go outside again. "
We think at that point, then, it's important to parse out the ability of people to consent out of this versus people to consent in.
We think that contrary to government's assertions, there is a way to basically, you know, practice your desire to be nude, that is, to just do it in private or do it in designated places that exist in the status quo, like nude beaches and that sort of thing.
Gov says that's arbitrary.
We take two problems with it.
One, we think that creating segregated locations is important to ensuring that people who don't want to see nudity don't have to.
But secondly, we think that it's problematic insofar as, you know, these these arbitrary lines aren't arbitrary.
They're determined by what the social attitudes are.
So while, again, this is something that isn't necessarily looted in rooted in like a firm logic and a reasoned decision-making process, we still think that if it that's the social conception of what's good, then that's what the government should be implementing as law.
This leads me into my second point that even absent the consent issues, we think that just the will of the many should outweigh the will of the few.
So, government takes issue with there's like this majoritarian approach that's quashing like I think I've already explained as to why generally there is ability for people who want to be nude to access that right in the privacy of their own homes or in designated areas, but I think even if that wasn't true, at the point where two equally legitimate claims are being made, that is, the willing desire to just be nude, which probably isn't a strong rights claim, versus the desire to not see nude people, which also probably doesn't matter that much but is still tangible, we think you should just defer to what more people want.
If the goal of the government is to reduce net suffering and maximize the happiness of people within the borders of that country, then we think that you should just follow the will of the many when there isn't disparate impacts on the two populations.
Proud to oppose.