I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban genetically modified crops.
We'll model this as just you know ban on sale in the way we would normally ban sale of any product so probably jail time for the people that produce the product, we'll also model it is you know financial penalties for people that are found in possession of the product unless of course they weren't aware that it was genetically modified.
Our first independent point is that largely these products are you know marketed as the result of an information asymmetry.
That people aren't quite aware of you know what goes into these products and what specifically has been genetically modified and at that point there isn't meaningful consent into the purchase of this product.
Well we think that obviously there are large amounts of food that this applies to.
We think this is particularly pernicious with genetically modified crops because people don't really understand the science that goes into the development of these products and as such that there isn't really a meaningful way that they could properly understand the product itself.
There really isn't any amount of government labeling that can just like explain to people like complex biological ideas and like research methods and at that point there isn't a way to obtain meaningful consent.
So given thought then, we think that the ban is justified.
Our second independent point is that there are unintended consequences that are intrinsic to scientific you know scientific advancements such as this, but particularly with food we think that there is a higher standard that has to be applied really for two reasons.
The first is that most of the side effects can't be measured for a very long time.
Things that have a detrimental effect on your diet take you know decades to actually reveal like meaningful measurable effects which is why you know even just now we're you know getting new research about things that we've obviously had access to the data on for a long amount of time, things like you know red meat being carcinogenic.
It's not like red meat is new, it's just that it takes a long time for us to collect this data because of one, advancements in you know measuring technology but two, because you know you actually have to have a lot of time with the food being a steady part of an individual's diet to have that measurable effect.
The problem then with genetically modified crops is that you know you have to expose someone to this thing for decades before you can really find out if it has harmful effects.
That in turn means that you are almost guaranteed to wind up putting something on the market that has an extremely detrimental effect because you just didn't know until like thirty years later that it was so harmful.
Given that, we think a ban is justified because the large amounts of effects that can be you know intrinsic to food this is something that's consumed by large amounts of people and as such has a really systemic effect on the population, are you know grave enough to warrant a ban.
Our third independent point is damage to ecosystems.
So particularly with regards to animals we think that there's some pretty profound effects that can happen with genetically modified crops that aren't you know within the financial incentives of the firms that develop them.
I do think that broadly speaking a company like monsanto, doesn't like like intentionally poison people for if no reason other than monsanto needs people to be alive to continue selling them products but those same incentive structures don't apply to animals.
I think broadly speaking if we take a plain pleasure analytic perspective and decide through that that animals have rights it's important to you know actually create products that aren't going to be harmful if like a dear decides to wander onto a farm and nibble on some of the corn that's growing there.
Likewise, I think there's just brought ecosystem related reasons why even humans benefit from just having like a stable environment and not like jeopardizing the like like local wildlife.
At that point then, we think that for the same reasons that apply to humans but even more broadly because there's less incentive to test them properly, animals are put extremely at risk by the proliferation of genetically modified crops.
Proud to propose.