I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize public nudity.
So I think the way that we want to model this is essentially have designated areas like nude beaches or even nude malls but we obviously wouldn't like lift this restriction on like all public areas.
Like this would just be for specific designated zones.
So under this then, two independent points.
First is autonomy.
I think generally the reason why we don't legalize public nudity has to do with just the fact that people are uncomfortable with it but obviously as you know nudist colonies and things like that demonstrate there are people who aren't uncomfortable with it.
So the best way then to like insure that there's balance basically between you know people's right to do what they want as long as it doesn't hurt others, first is people's right to not be made uncomfortable by public nudity is just to have designated zones where it's legal.
If you have that ability then to you know if you are someone that just really cares about being nude sometimes, if you have that capacity to you know be free to do that without infringing on people's ability to you know walk around in public without being made uncomfortable by nudity in public, then I think this is a reasonable way to balance them.
The reason we care about autonomy stems from essentially just the majority of the way in which we construe rights.
We only care about you know things like right to life because we care about your ability to do things with that life that you deem to make you happiest.
So when we can we should maximize autonomy.
We should maximize people's capacity to do what they see fit with their lives and their time and especially if it we can do it in a way that doesn't really infringe on anybody else's you know personal comfort or generate any third party harms.
There really isn't a constructive reason as to why we shouldn't maximize that autonomy.
My second independent point, and I think this is actually significantly more important, is that laws like public nudity and even other related laws like laws against public urination are specifically used in a way that persecutes homeless people.
When you don't have a private residence a lot of these things including you know, nudity, have to be conducted in public because you don't have a private space in which to conduct it.
You know something like trying to bathe in a public river, or something like that this is something that is a day to day necessity for a lot of people but is criminalized because for some people it makes them uncomfortable but it's important to allow people to you know actually do things like bathe that require nudity and I think one way to resolve this tension that is to ensure that homeless people actually have a way to carry out the necessary functions of their day to day life without you know basically incurring the wrath of everybody else is to designate specific areas where this can be conducted.
So you know if you make you know specific public spaces you know tolerant of nudity then this becomes much less of a burden on the homeless population that they actually can you know live properly or at least as properly as is possible when they're experiencing such poverty and hardship without you know doing so in a way that inconveniences others essentially.
Proud to propose.