I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should close guantanamo bay.
Our first independent point is that guantanamo bay as a prison and interrogation site is extraordinarily effective.
And it's particularly effective because of its location.
Government concedes that the reason we're able to under go intense interrogation, things like waterboarding and torture, is specifically because of its location.
It's not on US soil so a lot of the regulations and codes and things that like that that apply to US federal prisons don't apply to gitmo.
Likewise there is a scrutiny aspect that because it is physically distant it is often not scrutinized in the same way that a prison that we'll say in like alabama would be.
So I think this is important because that these interrogation tactics are often really important for two reasons.
The first is that the individuals themselves are often guilty of extremely heinous crimes that necessitate some form of retribution.
That is these people deserve to be punished for you know acts of terrorism and other extremely heinous crimes.
This, in turn, this higher capacity of interrogation, allows us to both effectively punish them for these crimes but also to more accurately get information about the nature of their crime out there so that they can be successfully prosecuted.
But secondly we think this interrogation is important because it increases our understanding of the terrorist networks that they belong to.
So if we capture say a foot soldier from al qaeda they might have valuable information about the operations of al qaeda and as such we want to be able to use intense interrogation tactics to be able to get that information out of them.
Insofar as we can't do that in other locations we think preserving gitmo is particularly important to national security.
Our second independent point is the image projected by gitmo.
We think that in particular this has a deterrence effect.
Gitmo like as gov mentions is seen as sort of this like horrible prison where like a lot of human rights abuses happens.
Gov is particularly concerned with the image this projects abroad.
That is sort of like our status as like a beacon of like a free government.
We think that that image is lost already for other reasons like like the wars we're currently involved in, or domestic issues like treatment of minorities like that's like a lost cause.
We think at that point then it's important to project an image of strength.
That is that people who act against the united states will be effectively punished for that and we think that gitmo is probably the strongest symbol of that strength.
We think that by preserving gitmo we preserve the notion that those who act against the interests of the united states, like terrorists, will be effectively punished and will suffer.
And we think that in turn mitigates the proliferation of terrorism.
Our third and final independent point is that from a you know military and security perspective the bases' physical location provides a check against cuba.
We think in recent years the growth of the cuban economy and its political status has made cuba a particular interest.
Gov tells you that cuba is not what it once was, that it's not you know this old world of like where the castro's ruled it you know back in like the sixties or whatever, rather it's a much more modern country now.
We think this is exactly the problem though.
Cuba's getting stronger now.
They have more capacity to lash out against us whereas they didn't use to.
We think this is exactly why we need the military base.
Because that anti-american sentiment is still extremely strong in cuba and at that point then we think that there is necessity in protecting ourselves from any possible acts of aggression against us from cuba.
Given that a military base on cuba's own soil is an extremely effective check against their possible aggression.
Proud to oppose.