I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion, that we should adopt mobile payments.
There wasn't a description for this motion, so I'm going to model it a bit liberally, because I'm not quite sure what the intention was.
The model I'll be taking is that mobile payments, through cellular devices, are something that we as a society should embrace, and encourage the proliferation of as an option.
So, things like apple pay, or google wallet.
So, three independent points on this: first, security in transactions, second, flexibility in transactions, and third, greater capacity to track, through government agencies, which in turn benefits tracking of illegal transactions.
So first, on the security point.
So it's important to note, that services like this are password protected.
That means it's a lot harder for someone attempting to steal this payment method, than it is with, say, card or cash, where you can just steal the physical object and use that, even with card, where it's like added benefit is that you can cancel the card of someone has discovered it, with a phone it is password protected, so there's not even a point of entry, it's significantly harder to get into this.
Think though, one point of access that you can reasonably, say, exists with these mobile payment devices is like hacking into the account itself, but that's probably non unique, given that given that these are based in bank accounts anyway, and those have an electronic presence, and realistically it's the same infrastructure you would be hacking into, so it is unlikely that this is any easier to do than the status quo.
Our second independent point, on flexibility.
So, it is much easier to engage in these types of transactions for what seem like probably trivial reasons, but when you multiply it out of the number of times these types of things happen a day, it has a big economic effect.
So, there's less barrier, in the sense that, you know, you don't have to make an ATM withdrawal, like you would with cash, you don't have to worry about forgetting your wallet like you might with a card, and while these seem like very small barriers to economic transactions, these presumably total up to like millions of dollars, on like a daily or at least weekly basis.
So, I think there is like a very tangible way, in which this improves economic activity, insofar as you're just like increasing the number of transactions, by decreasing barriers to market participation.
But, I think the other really important thing to consider here is that even if this isn't meaningfully distinct from card or cash, on a large like, nationwide basis, it's important to note that you are just increasing the number of options.
So with one thing works better for some people, and another thing works better for other people, that is like when you're making the comparative between, say, cash and mobile payments, like you just increase the number of options, so you just create an economy that works better for people, because you give them the capacity to individualize these decisions.
Our third independent point: tracking the black market.
So, we would say that a mobile payment system is tied to a physical number and name.
This is something that, generally speaking, gives you a lot more direct connections to the individual, than a cash or a card would.
It is like significantly tougher to tie to with with comparison to card it's a lot tougher to tie this down, to you know, like , like fraudulent usage, insofar as the card just requires you to make the bank account, wherein like the phone, you are combining the complications of getting a burner phone, with the complications of getting a bank account, and then the infrastructure necessary to tie those things together.
The end result of this then, is that it's easier to track black market transactions, or at least easier so than cash and card.
That in turn means like greater law enforcement crackdown on illegal activities, generally speaking, these cash transactions matter, because they are a small portion of what is a bigger crime, generally things like organized crime, or like like terrorist cells, things like that generally these like black money transactions are really important, in cracking down on these bigger crimes.
Proud to propose.