I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should end athletic scholarships.
For the model we're comfortable defending an outright ban through something like a government policy.
We would say that this is something that is applied universally just for competitive say like this can be applied in a global scale just like through individual government saying you know we're going to do this.
Three independent points or two independent points sorry.
First, that it harms universities and second, that it harms athletes.
So on the first point that universities are harmed under the status quo, we would say that cash is zero some.
That the university only has so much money that it can spend on so many things.
This is pretty objectively a bad use.
Athletic sports teams don't really bring that much money back into the university because you wind up spending so much of it on things like fields and coaching staff and equipment meanwhile, there are other things you can use it on like lab space or things that actually benefit students learning that are just objectively better ways to use your money.
We think the primary obligation of a university or just in general a place of higher learning, is to educate its students and it has a proactive obligation to the students that pay lots and lots of money to go to that place to actually provide a meaningful educational experience to the greatest extent possible.
Like even if in the status quo a lot of these places are capable of providing quality education, we think there's always more that you can do.
There's always better library amenities you can provide.
There's always you know more teachers you can hire thus enabling smaller class sizes.
There's more lab space that you can build thus enabling better research to occur on your campus.
There's always more you could do you and there's practically no roof on that.
That means that athletics are probably a bad way of sinking money and when you give the scholarships out you are spending lots and lots of money on this thing.
On our second point that the policy harms athletes, so right now athletes have to spend a lot of time practicing basically to get these scholarships and then to maintain these scholarships.
The problem is that studying and practicing both take time.
There is a zero sum analysis that an individual has to make based on whether or not they're going to study or practice at any given moment and the more they practice the less they study.
That's a problem because not everybody goes professional.
Not everyone gets into the NBA or the NFL or the MLB or whatever.
So when you in are part of the large group of people that inevitably doesn't get into the major leagues, you are poorly equipped post college.
This is true for a couple reasons.
First, holding your scholarship is contingent on you sinking a lot of time in college into this.
You have to be an extremely active member of the team and dedicate the majority of your time to it otherwise you lose your scholarship and you won't be able to continue going to the university.
Second, you have to waste a lot of time in high school getting the scholarship.
That means that basically you are trading a lot of your studying time for practice time to get into a school that's probably not significantly better because you did make this trade off and in exchange you have learned less because you've spent less time on your academics.
Third, without the competitiveness there is still equality in the admissions process.
So think of it like this, if you don't use the athletic scholarships the competitive incentives to push ahead in high school and get these scholarships dissipates.
That means that no one is getting ahead of each other.
Basically we use this institution, athletic scholarships, to get ahead of our peers in terms of the college admissions process, but everyone in the athletic sectors using it.
So if nobody was using it it would still be that same level of competitiveness amongst athletes.
So the problem then, is that you are expending a lot of money and doing something that creates a lot of harm in order to get an unclear benefit.
You get a landscape that is equally competitive just with higher stakes and more money wasted.
Proud to propose.