I'm proud to support the motion that we should subsidize renewable energy.
Three independent points.
First is that we think in the long run this is a cost effective measure.
The reason is that renewable forms of energy like solar energy or hydroelectric don't have recurring costs in the same way that fossil fuels do.
So oil for example has to be constantly extracted, has to constantly be purchased from oil producers, and as a result it's a costly way to run a country's energy infrastructure.
While green energy like solar, hydroelectric has higher up front costs in the long run these costs this investment essentially is worth it.
It is something that at a very fundamental level is something that simply just isn't going to cause those same kinds of recurrent costs in the long run and as such will wind up being revenue beneficial.
Our second independent point though is that these forms of energy are more sustainable in the long term.
The nature of fossil fuels is that they are finite in nature, there's only so much coal in the world, there's only so much oil in the world.
As a result we are approaching a point in history then where we might run out of these types of fossil fuels.
This of course would be disastrous.
We think that at a very like basic level energy is what makes the world goes round go round.
Our cars run on this, our lights run on this, basically everything on our society that matters runs on this.
If we run out then of the capacity to fuel these types of technologies that we rely on so heavily, we lose the ability to run our society appropriately.
Given then that these are finite fossil fuels, we need something to replace them.
We think increasing the rate at which alternative energy technology is developed is fundamentally important to ensuring the survival of our society.
We think then that even if the subsidies are somewhat inefficient, if the end result is that they create more sustainable technology and they accelerate the rate at which research occurs, then we think that that benefit to society outweighs whatever the cost of the subsidy itself is.
Our third and final independent point though is that green technology is a necessity to combating global warming.
In the status quo, global warming is already wreaking havoc.
We see it in increased numbers of storms, we see it in rising sea levels and particularly in a way that poses a direct threat to island nations like kiribati, and we see in the long run that this is only going to get worse, that places in southeast asia face huge amounts of flooding threats that we see that the storms we are currently experiencing the ones that are worse than what we've seen in the past are only going to continue to escalate.
At that point there is an existential threat posed by climate change both in terms of the financial toll but also in terms of things like actual extinction like for example the number of animal species that are expected to go extinct as result of climate change.
Green technology mitigates that risk and hopefully eliminates it by decreasing the number of emissions that the developed world puts out and even the developing world hopefully if the technology becomes more applicable we decrease then the rate at which we actually are capable of fighting climate change, of fighting this global warming by decreasing the emissions that are causing it at a basic level.
For these reasons proud to propose.