I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban no-knock warrants.
I'd like to start this with an overview that responds largely to the rights claims put forward by side government.
Specifically, we hear a contention from them on privacy that this is, you know, something that is a fundamental violation of people's rights and that we need to, you know, ensure that we don't enforce these types of warrants in order to protect that right to privacy.
I think this though misses the fundamental point of no-knock warrants, that these are given for extreme circumstances and it has to go through a judge first.
It's not like this person isn't being represented in any way, shape or form.
There is a check on this.
The legal system does ensure that you actually have to get approval from a person that doesn't have, you know, like a vested interest in the case and that isn't a member of the police force.
And as such, we think that there is a reasonable protection against this just happening to random individuals.
Rather, the way our legal system is designed to work is that these should only be enforced upon people who there is like a very reasonable suspicion of the a, some some sort of criminal activity, but b, that there is an extremely reasonable suspicion that there will be specific reasons to engage in a no-knock warrant.
Those reasons then will make up the bulk of the next two points I'll bring up, the first of which being is that there is a need for no-knock warrants to preserve the integrity of evidence in criminal investigations.
This is especially true with drug cases , or really even white-collar crime, something where there is specific evidence that is needed either to actually prosecute the crime or even for evidence related to other related crimes that can be quickly disposed of, you know, things like being flushed down the toilet or burned.
This is a problem then that we think that essentially when you knock on the door and announce you're the police, that is enough time to toss financial documents into a fire or to, you know, run upstairs and flush drugs down the toilet.
That then means that when the police come in and search the house, they are unable to find evidence of the crime.
This is a problem, one, because it means that, you know, the truth-seeking purpose of the criminal justice system and the judicial system is eradicated, that you cannot reasonably prosecute the crime if you don't have the evidence and as such, impunity is the end result.
But secondly, there's a harm in that future crimes, especially those with actual victims, can be, you know, continued essentially if the crime can't be prosecuted in the first place.
So, for example, someone that's, you know, engaging in financial crimes that have harmful impacts on innocent investors and things like that, like a a ponzi scheme or something.
If the evidence of it is destroyed, then it is very difficult to ensure that someone else won't be damaged by this ongoing crime.
But secondly, we think that there is a in our second independent point is that there is a protection need for the police themselves.
So, oftentimes, the reason that no-knock warrants are given out is because there is a belief that the time that you spend knocking on the door and waiting after the knock is enough time for something like, say, an organized crime ring to prepare themselves for the police entering, and respond with force.
This, of course, is a problem, although we think that, obviously, if you just enforce these warrants on like random people, then they might not respond rationally.
But at the point where we think these warrants are specifically designed for situations in which individuals are going to respond with force anyway, and you want their to mitigate their capacity to essentially hurt as many police as possible, then this is a reasonable thing to give out and a reasonable thing to enforce.
I do want to underline all of this by noting that it's not our obligation to show that every time a no-knock warrant has ever been issued it was a reasonable thing to issue.
Rather, since the policy is an outright ban, our burden is to demonstrate that there are reasonable circumstances under which this has these can be given out.
Proud to oppose.