I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban smoking.
Our first independent point regards consumer choice, that is the fact that the government is often not in a position to make decisions on the behalf of individual citizens and therefore it doesn't make sense to proxy that decision making power off to an actor with less information about preferences.
Smoking is definitely unhealthy, that is to say it you know causes lung cancer, it causes tar, it causes all these other things.
But fundamentally we think that what happens here is that there are you know cost benefit analysis for people that decide whether or not they want to smoke that they themselves are the only one who can really decide.
I don't smoke because I don't like it enough to you know make it worth the health risks.
Other people really really like smoking and we think at this point then, because different people have different preferences and different ways of weighing those benefits against those harms, those individuals are in a unique position to make that decision for themselves.
I don't think at the point where there is any objective definition of weighing those harms against those benefits that the state is in a reasonable position to say for the individual that you can not make that decision, I have to make it for you.
Gov tries to beat this back by telling you there's an asymmetry of information.
I think there's really a fundamental problem with that which is that everyone knows that smoking is bad like this is just universal information, everybody is perfectly aware that it is bad for your health.
I don't think there's like anyone that you could really walk up to on the street and be like did you know smoking is bad and they would be like no tell me more like everyone knows that smoking gives you cancer.
And at that point then I think that on an individual basis people are totally capable of consenting into this.
Our second independent point though regard specifically the standard that they set forward about third-party harms.
So I think first off it's important to note that their blanket policy about things like marijuana smoke really don't generate third-party harms.
Like we're really only talking about tobacco as something that affects people with secondhand smoke because the you know the tar and the pollutants and things are in them but we don't think that you know realistically that other forms of smoking have the same third-party issues.
What we do think though is the more reasonable solution to the third-party harms intrinsic to tobacco is essentially the status quo.
, heavy bans on usage in public.
We think that people if they want to use this in their own homes privately certainly can.
We think that's a reasonable thing for people to you know consent into.
We think there's even legal precedent for people being banned from doing it in the you know proximity of like small children who can have developing issues from secondhand smoke but the current legal infrastructure more or less solves for third-party harms by just ensuring that people won't smoke in the presence of people that didn't consent into being smoked near.
You can't smoke in a bar, you can't smoke in parks, and if you want to do it in your own home and inhale your own vapors then that's something you can do of your own volition.
Our third and final independent point is just sort of the black market of smoking.
So we think that people are always going to want tobacco.
Not only is it an addictive substance so the people that are currently addicted are going to like continue using this but we also think that the cultural implications of smoking make it such that it's heavily demanded.
As such, there is precedent for a black market of cigarettes and chewing tobacco you know you can get this imported, you can easily sneak this across the border, and I think the problem with this then is that all those health harms associated with tobacco like all those poisons all those preservatives they get way worse when the industry isn't regulated.
When you're looking at a black market, you're looking at a market that doesn't have a government actually like checking to make sure that these products are safe for consumption or at least comparatively safer and as such you maximize the harms inflicted upon individuals.
Proud to oppose.