I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish the attorney client privilege.
Two independent points: first, that the policy undermines truth seeking which ought be the primary purpose of the criminal justice system.
When we say that it undermines truth seeking, what we mean is that this essentially enables criminals to get away with you know committing crimes.
That it undermines the process by which our criminal justice system seeks to find out what actually happened.
You know because of attorneys don't actually have to disclose information, then that's information that doesn't necessarily become public, and as such it mitigates the efficacy of the investigation.
Insofar as there is potentially more information that could come to light for the judge, the jury and police even.
So all of this demonstrates why it's clearly something that obstructs justice.
It's something that gets in the way of actually truth seeking.
But the reason why truth seeking is the most important value in our criminal justice system is really fundamental.
That is that our first priority should always be to ensure that justice is served to the victims.
Op is going to tell you that it's important to you know protect the accused's rights.
I think there's fundamentally a couple problems with this: the first being is that it's not quite clear why withholding information that is potentially you know something that could resolve an investigation is actually a right of the accused.
This is something that you know doesn't really hold much benefit in that if it would be incriminating it should come forward.
Because they're being tried for a criminal offense.
But it's also something that's important insofar as our primary purpose with the criminal justice system is to determine whether or not somebody committed a crime.
Recognize that this is zero sum.
This is, if we you know don't find one person guilty this can be an ongoing investigation that can be both mentally taxing to the victims, but also financially taxing to the government, and that's something that you know actually inflicts like a tangible harm on people then.
When there are more expenses put into investigations and less into you know name your favorite social program.
So all of this then means that we have a criminal justice system that is you know fundamentally not working to our best interests.
And realistically we should always put our best foot forward.
We should always try to create a system that works the best for the people that not only pay for it, but the people that are most directly affected by it.
You know people like the victims, people like the accused.
Our second independent point though is that this inhibits ongoing investigations.
I think this is particularly important.
That is, when someone is accused of a crime, of something that is ongoing, take like past of a mafia for example.
You want the most information to come forward to ensure the prevention of future crimes.
So you know if someone is you know convicted for something relating to mob activity and they have information on, you know, leadership or people who committed other crimes, you always want to ensure that that information can come forward in order to prevent future crimes from occurring.
If you have this policy in place, the the attorney client privilege, that mitigates the extent to which you could actually receive that information, and by extent there it's not just then a question of whether or not justice is served to one individual, this is also a more systemic question of whether or not the your ability to enforce the law is affected in other instances as well.
In that case then there's actually tangible suffering that can stem from the attorney client privilege.
And we think that fundamentally that's a problem at most basic level.
That we don't want more suffering to be incurred because of this privilege which has frankly unclear goals.
Proud to propose.