I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should cancel the social security tax.
So I want to be absolutely clear about the way the gov modeled this.
They did not model it as, let's cancel the social security tax and then reform social security with some sort of other revenue collecting method.
Rather they said let's get rid of social security all together.
I think while gov might give you some arguments about paternalism and things like that, what's important to understand is that this round isn't about whether or not a reformed version of social security would be preferable to either the status quo or the model that gov brings forward.
Rather this round is about whether or not the world in which nobody gets social security is preferable to the world in which everybody gets social security.
This fundamentally, I think, is going to be the problem with govs case.
This brings me to my first independent point, that there are basically a principle justification for ensuring that people don't have to work when they're older.
I think social security brings a unique benefit to individuals who, you know, don't have the you know physical capacity to continue working when they're in like their eighties and that principally it's unjust to tell them essentially you have to languish in poverty by virtue of the fact that your body just did the things that happen to a person's body when they turn eighty.
Fundamentally it's not like they did anything to cause that to happen to them.
That's just like natural, that's the way that bodies work.
And as such then we think it's unfair to tell people that they must suffer just because of the way that you know nature works.
If the government can take proactive steps to mitigate that suffering I think that's much more reasonable.
Our second independent point, and more fundamentally cutting to the meat of government's model, is that the safety net provided by social security for those that need the structure outweigh the paternalism claims made by government.
So when we're talking about this safety net we're looking at extremely vulnerable individuals, people who have probably been poor their entire lives and as such didn't have the capacity to save up for retirement.
The reason you know why it's difficult to save up for retirement is that essentially one, a lot of people just don't have the money to save up for retirement, they need the money now so that they can buy things like food and shelter, but secondly, and this cuts to sort of the question of how we use the tax revenue, a lot of people just don't have the like the knowledge of how to invest their money properly.
So if you tell a bunch of people that you know didn't graduate from college, or even high school potentially, you need to go out and invest this money so that you have a retirement fund, I think a lot of those people are not only going to just give up essentially because they don't understand the financial market in an intricate way.
For what it's worth I don't even think like most you know college educated people would be able to do that well.
I think particularly people though that don't understand the financial market are also going to fall victim to predatory practices.
It's simply an unreasonable standard to tell people you have to do this investment on your own volition.
Given that, we think there are scores of people in this country that are suffering by virtue of the fact that they couldn't build their own retirement fund because they don't have that knowledge to do it of their own volition and social security becomes a necessary intervention.
The best argument then, that gov can put forward, is that for the wealthy people or people that understand the financial market very intricately they could have done this of their own volition and that this is paternalism to force social security on them.
That's probably fair but I think that's a fairly minor harm when the comparative is, again, scores of poorer individuals languishing in poverty because we told them that you know we didn't want to be paternalistic to the rich people.
Proud to oppose.