I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize sex selection.
In terms of the model, we're not going to take a stance on sex selective abortion, specifically we're talking about, you know, technologies that allow a developing embryo to be you know one sex or the other based on the parent's decision.
And then of course like the physicians will go in and they will, you know, do the necessary technology things to make that happen.
Two independent points: the first being parental rights.
So we first want to establish what the basis for parental rights is.
And is really two fold: one is the rights of the parents themselves, to just you know have things that they like to happen, happen.
They, as individuals, have to you know go through a decent amount, like living with the kid, and that entitles them to a certain amount of latitude over you know what sort of experience they will have in raising that child.
But the second is the way in which the parents themselves are proxies for the child's best interest.
Especially at an embryonic stage, the kid isn't really capable of advocating for themselves.
And at that point then, the most meaningful proxy for the children's will, is the parents themselves.
You know in early childhood of course the parent is just the most familiar with the with the child and what the child's interests are, but even in embryonic stage the parent is still the best proxy because the parents understand best the environment in which the child's going to be raised.
So they have the best understanding of what this child will be like, based on what they're going to make that child into.
At that point then we think that sex is obviously something that has a significant impact on the outcomes a child has in life.
Discrimination against women is rampant, but there are also structural reasons, like an individual countries culture, that might signify whether it is better to be raised up a boy or a girl.
At that point then it seems eminently reasonable to allow this decision to be made by parents.
What sort of life is this child going to have, and is it going to be a positive one?
We think at that point then, if you know sex is a significant factor in the quality of the life, in the amount of discrimination or whatever the child might experience, it's it's reasonable for the parent to say: " this will be a better life ".
Or if you personally I will just enjoy having this individual sex more.
If a child you know if a set of parents just really wants to raise a girl, that I think it's within their rights to allow them to do so, insofar as they probably have legitimate reasons for wanting that.
But the second thing I'd like to establish, my second independent point, is that the children themselves don't have intrinsic rights that can't be proxied by the parents.
I think this is true for two reasons: the first is that the kid just doesn't have, at this point, any rights at all really.
When you're talking about an embryo this almost certainly doesn't meet the standard for what constitutes a entity with rights.
If you go by pain and pleasure, you know whether or not they are capable of having specific desires and preferences, then it's almost certainly not true.
Obviously the science is still out on this, but it doesn't seem that embryos have much capacity to react to external stimuli, and at that point they probably don't have preferences.
If it's in terms of intelligence or some other standard like that then they even more certainly don't meet that standard.
They haven't developed even brains yet, so there really isn't a way by which you can apply that standard to them.
At that point then, if the entity doesn't have rights it doesn't make sense to prioritize their rights.
It makes much more sense to prioritize the will of the parents.
But let's assume that the embryo does have rights.
I don't think that they have a proactive right to the particular sex that was randomly assigned to them, you know, through, what will be assigned to them through development.
Rather, you know, since this was random chance in the first place anyway, it almost makes more sense to just proxy this off to the parents, insofar as the parents just structurally are more likely to choose something that will benefit the child than like a literal coin flip would.
Proud to propose.