I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should lower the drinking age.
Generally it's just like a principle debate, so we would defend anything really that lowers the drinking age.
But what specifically I think I want to endorse here is not just that the drinking age should be lower than it already is, specifically in the united states, but also that the united states should allow a gradient system.
One that basically has a lower drinking age for specific standards.
So you know liquor might be at like twenty one, and then at but it eighteen you have like beer and wine, and even earlier than that you can drink in a supervised setting like with parents.
So basically you could work your way up to you know full liquor consumption essentially.
So two independent points here then: the first of these is just, generally speaking, autonomy.
When people you know have the ability to you know have conformed, informed consent into a particular course of action, they should be free to pursue that course of action, assuming there aren't like really serious third party harms.
I think with consumption of alcohol you know that's pretty clear cut.
With twenty one year olds - were fine with letting them drink because of informed consent.
They understand what they're doing.
And I don't think that that informed consent meaningfully changes between when you're younger, like say eighteen or so, until you're twenty one.
If it does, the only reason is because nobody really knows a ton about you know limits when drinking and things like that until they start.
So if someone knows this by twenty one it's really only because they did so illegally, and then by the time they were twenty one they just had it figured out.
So I don't think then that by lowering this to eighteen you're suddenly going to see like a rash of increases in the harms, because broadly people did that anyway when they were eighteen.
And if they're really waiting until they're twenty one to start drinking that probably also happens.
So our second independent point then would be specifically the gradient system and why that's allows for children or young adults rather, to learn alcohol and safe practices for consuming alcohol much more effectively.
I think in the status quo there's a problem when it is illegal to drink at a slightly younger age.
Because that means that it always happens in unsupervised settings.
That you know this is something that you do with like your other young bodies you know on like, when you're like sixteen or to eighteen for the first time.
And that's a problem.
Because it means that you're a lot likely to engage in dangerous habits and drink too much or even just not know how to get back home safely or any range of bad things that can happen while you're drunk, because you don't have that experience.
Because you don't understand the risks that are you know inherent to drinking.
So this is a problem then, and we think it's significantly better when people learn you know basically the ropes, in a supervised setting.
If you look to a country like france for example, you can drink as young as five in you know the presence of your parents, this is this is good.
This means that you know when you're a teenager you can figure this stuff out in a supervised setting.
I don't think you know in terms of the health harms, there's a really significant difference between that age and say eighteen to twenty one, of when you know start learning the ropes.
And even if your parents are very conscious of these health harms and don't want you to start until you're eighteen, you still have the capacity to learn now any supervised setting, in a way that isn't legal in the united states right now.
I think a lot of parents avoid that supervised setting not just because of the you know the legal ramifications but also because the legal structure sets a social norm that this isn't an acceptable thing to do with your kid.
But it should be acceptable.
It should be something that is freely done because it helps kids make sure that they they understand what they're getting into the first time that they drink in a social setting, and that goes a long way to ensuring their safety when they drink.
Proud to propose.