I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish nuclear weapons.
Our first independent point rests in mutually assured destruction.
I think this mitigates a lot of the harms that government brings forward.
Mutually assured destruction essentially dictates that countries won't use nuclear weapons because they understand that other countries with nuclear weapons have second strike capability, that is the ability to hit back if an impending attack is seen from another country, and as such no country would reasonably utilize their nuclear arsenal against another country with a nuclear arsenal on the basis that it would invite retaliation and mutual destruction.
This then means that intentional nuclear strikes are extremely, extremely unlikely.
The only link then the government provides to get around this is like this example of one time in russia where a faulty screen reading resulted in people thinking that there was a nuclear attack.
It is notable that since that this has never happened because extensive precautions have been taken to ensure that this type of malfunction would never ever occur.
The launch time that it takes for a nuclear weapon to reach another country is long enough that these types of catastrophes can be easily mitigated and as such there is a serious reason why really only one time has this ever even been maybe a problem.
Our second independent point is that there is less conflict in a world with nuclear weapons.
So nuclear weapons mitigate the you know prevalent nature of conflict basically because nobody wants to go to war with someone that has nukes.
Gov frames this is as a new form of imperialism that nuclear weapons holders basically you know weaponize that standing to ensure that no one will stand in their way.
We think the problem with this perspective though is two fold.
The first is that the comparative is old imperialism which is significantly bloodier, more violent and induced more suffering.
If you couldn't just do it through like geopolitical leverage, you had to do it through actual like demonstrated force and colonization.
We think that's significantly worse and inflicts a lot more suffering than nuclear weapons do simply because there's just not a war usually involved with this new imperialism gov describes.
But the second is that I think even casting it as imperialism is a misnomer.
On the basis that generally what this means is that countries want entry into the elite club.
And what they'll do then is conform to a set of norms that are almost inherently good norms in order to gain access to that elite club.
A range of countries have entered, if not the literal club of people who hold nuclear weapons, countries as diverse as say israel and france and china and what not, we think that secondly they have to adopt you know fairly they even if they're in the tertiary group of people who are well aligned with that group, they have to adopt to international norms largely set out by international organizations like the UN in order to gain that good standing.
So we think then that nuclear weapons are essentially a method of norm spreading that ensures that countries with good intentions can beat back those with bad intentions.
Our third independent point is that in enforcement of the policy proposed by gov, there isn't a way to really ensure that it's done well.
The reason for this is if everyone were to take down their nukes most of the countries, especially those with large arsenals, have the institutional knowledge to quickly rebuild their arsenal.
This means that in case of a sort of any sort of conflict that occurs after the disarmament, any country can simply rebuild its nuclear arsenal rapidly and this will most likely result in an imbalance in power.
This then takes out the protections provided by mutually assured destruction because second strike capability is no longer a given.
At that point then, there is a global imbalance of power that can spark conflict and suffering and more extreme versions of the imperialism described by side government.
Proud to oppose.