I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban free newspapers.
Three independent points: first is that there is very little demand for these, and as such, the restriction on access will be unlikely to be particularly consequential.
These newspapers have very very low readership.
This is, you know, they're operating on razor thin margins, they're almost entirely loaded with advertisements and as a result, not a a lot of people are actually needed to make these worth it.
Because the printing costs are razor thin, they are put in public places at no expense to the actual newspaper producer, and they only need like literally like maybe like a hundred people reading these newspapers in a major city to actually make it a profitable endeavor.
Given this, I think that this is something that is low impact in terms of whether or not people have the capacity to read this, and there's a low burden to demonstrate harm intrinsic to these papers to justify a ban.
So given that, our second independent point is that there is a public blight created by their proliferation.
They clutter streets, they clutter sidewalks, they clutter subways, these things are all over the place.
They are frequently discarded by people who just pick them up thinking it'll be a good newspaper, and then they you know throw them back down after realizing it's not a good newspaper.
They are you know used by like passer bys as like paper towels like no one uses these things as newspapers, no one enjoys these things.
So I don't think it's important then, to like continue having them, when like really the only tangible impact they have on the city it just kind of being like strewn across the street and creating more litter for people to deal with.
Our third independent point is that they are a bastion of particularly bad journalism.
So much like tabloids, they operate on thin margins and they don't have particularly good staffing.
As a result they're largely reliant upon like spreading falsehoods and engaging in bad journalism.
Sensationalist headlines, things like that.
But the problem is that because they're city specific, they're often political in nature.
So this is a lot more consequential than just like some ridiculous headline about like jennifer aniston having babies or something.
Right?
Like this is that's like consequential to jennifer aniston but not really anybody else.
The problem is that when it centered on like the mayor or something, because you need local figure that's of significance, then things get really problematic.
Right?
Like this undermines like the democratic process in that city at the municipal level.
Like this has some pretty serious impacts on the way that the city operates and even if their readership is low, the proliferation of those lies, the proliferation of that bad journalism definitely outweighs whatever extremely marginal benefits that people get from reading these things.
I don't think people enjoy them or need them thoroughly enough to justify the spread of those falsehoods and as such I think that's a really intrinsic harm that can be clearly weighed out to you know demonstrate why these are on net harmful papers, and harmful institutions producing these papers.
Proud to propose.