I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion that we should ban organic food.
Three so first the model.
We would just say that generally speaking there will be sorts of chemicals or at least categories of chemicals that we will require producers to apply to their to their crops to ensure things like less insect ravaging things like that, less disease spreading so I would say like certain kinds of pesticides and things like that.
We would just like mandate that you have to implement these for health reasons.
So three independent points.
First, that these crops, these organic crops, are necessarily unhealthy and pose a public health risk.
So pesticides, chemicals, things like that, that environmentalists tend to rail against are explicitly designed to prevent disease.
It's basically a safety thing at that point that you don't want people that are eating your crops to like get some sort of insect borne disease that can be transmitted to the food.
So I think a good example of this happening in real life is the chipotle coli breakout which was still unclear right now, like obviously that investigation is undergoing, but it seems pretty probable that their organic crops by virtue of lacking pesticides were a significant component and why that disease was able to spread so rapidly across so many locations.
So we would say then that we are justified us the government in mandating that these types of pesticides and things be used on crops in order to ensure of less disease spreading because this prevents outbreaks.
There is large amounts of third party externalities even to the people that don't eat the crops because diseases spread.
So something like, for example, banning raw milk because it is, you know, bad for you pretty objectively is something we would categorize in this way too.
That we would say this is a safety regulation.
We are doing this because consumers might not be aware of the ways in which certain chemicals protect you but generally speaking we as the government want to protect our citizens.
Our second independent point is that it's a poor use of land.
So organic crops use up large amounts of space when compared to their sort of GMO brethren.
That is they are not designed to be you know as compact as these other crops are.
People specifically designed variants of corn and wheat and things like that in order to ensure that those crops are going to be able to take up less space and you can get more bang for your buck essentially.
This is a problem then that we don't have this regularly speaking because land in most countries is finite.
This is especially true in the developing world where there's lots of food insecurity and shortages.
We would say it is preferable then to incentivize the market to invest more in these types of food that are more space efficient and more likely to produce larger amounts of food for smaller amounts of money thus ensuring a larger supply of food globally and therefore decreasing the price.
Our third independent point is that this is a misleading industry in it of itself.
That generally the science behind organic crops is shaky at best but furthermore that it preys on this notion of environmentalism that is misguided at best, that the sort of vague promises of a healthier, cleaner, purer diet are not actually rooted in fact and as such the government is justified in intervention intervening in abolishing this industry in so far it is is preying upon the people who were misled by these advertising campaigns.
Proud to propose.