I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should adopt direct democracy.
Our first independent point is that there is an information gap between members of the general public and represented members of government that means that policy making is almost inevitably going to be better on our side of the house.
Recognize that being an elected representative is a full time job and the responsibilities of that full time job entail an intricate knowledge of policy, the ways in which policies interact with one another, and the effects that policies will have on people.
Usually policy is quite dense.
Pieces of legislation are difficult to read.
And yet we hire people, essentially, to you know represent us at federal, state, and municipal levels, whose full time job it is to work on these issues.
This then poses a problem for side government because on their side of the house the people that are responsible for understanding dense pieces of legislation and deeply complicated issues become just average people on the streets.
And the reality is that intricate policy issues, like you know financial questions that of extreme importance that, you know, I don't understand certainly, and even more intricate questions like you know things to do with like really obscure regulations on like farming practices or whatever they're just not something that the average person on the street really has an intricate understanding of.
This creates a two fold problem: first it makes referendum very likely to just put out policies that don't make an awful lot of sense.
You know people are essentially going to be likely to for example in california where referendum were passed in one year that simultaneously you know increased taxes or increased benefits but decreased taxes or increased mandatory spending but decreased taxes.
This sort of contradictory behavior then me is you know significantly more likely in a world where the people making policy decisions aren't people that have an intricate understanding of how it works.
But secondly we think that it's problematic on the basis that they're essentially more likely to make uninformed decisions.
You know weighing in on policies that people just know absolutely nothing about because of someone told me, like hey, you want to weigh in on this policy about like soil gradiation, there is an issue that one, I'd we'll just have no idea what I'm talking about, but two, that some financial interest is going to be able to come up with a line that is particularly persuasive to me on the basis that it is persuasive to people that don't really understand the issue.
This leads me into my second point, that corporate influence is extremely, extremely easy on their side of the house.
This is something that gov particularly goes after in their speech.
That they say that it's tougher to influence you know a ton of people that are voting as opposed to one individual that's in office.
I think there's a few issues with this.
First is that there's less protections.
So there's a lot of ethics laws and specific like stipulations about how you interact with elected officials that actually make the type of bribery discussed in their speech, in gov's speech that is, very, very difficult and very, very rare.
It is usually not that explicit.
Usually what happens is there are campaign contributions made, that is you buy off the individual by funneling a lot of money into the campaign.
This is an issue though because you can then essentially then the comparative becomes whether or not elections are harder to influence verses referenda campaign.
This leads me into the second issue that beyond the legal protections lower turnout is present in referenda campaigns than in full elections, meaning that it is literally more expensive to you know influence the outcome of an election than it is to influence the outcome of a referenda campaign.
That makes financial interests much more likely to play a valuable role in the outcome of referenda.
And and thirdly financial interests can issue confusing ballots.
A good example of this in florida was a oil company that issued an anti-solar technology referenda.
It was actually disguised as being pro solar technology but the wording can be confusing and this again can prey on people that don't have access to the sort of you know essentially institutional knowledge and experience necessary to make informed decisions on policy.
Proud to oppose.