I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish the social security tax.
Models pretty straightforward.
We would just get rid of the social security system in general.
I think we would faze this out.
Obviously we wouldn't do it all overnight.
So basically we would slowly decrease the tax and decrease the payouts until the system just sort of weaned off.
So three independent points.
First, the system is regressive.
Right now payouts are tied to the previous income that you had over the course of your life.
It's like you're average income or something like that.
That's a problem because even in theory, that just means that people will get back what they paid into it.
That basically rich people who had high incomes were taxed more and they get a bigger payout.
But the problem is that the trajectory of this country over the last couple decades really has been widening inequality.
That means that in practice, people pay the amount that they made over time but that gap over time widens.
So what really happens then is that the money from poorer individuals trickles up into the richer individuals who get bigger cash outs later in their lives.
Basically you were paying tax rates that were closer to each other at the beginning so in the comparative poor people were shouldering a larger part of the burden then they wound up getting out again in the comparative at the end of the cycle.
That's a problem and it's fundamentally opposed to what the purpose of a tax system should be, especially one that is designed to support people who don't have a means of supporting themselves.
Our second independent point is that the system is unsustainable and as a result doesn't meaningfully solve for the lack of older people to actually support themselves financially.
Population growth over time means that there's never enough money in the system.
Basically a group of young people is paying into the or rather sorry not population growth like boom and bust cycles so like a large amount of baby boomers and things like that following the smaller population sizes, means that there is irregularity.
So that means that generally speaking, you're going to have time periods when there is a large amount of people trying to withdraw from the system and not a lot of people paying into it.
That leads to insolvency and that's a serious problem for your ability to actually have a fiscally responsible government system that is capable of giving people money when they need it.
Our third independent point, and this is what I think is the most important, is that it actively harms economic growth.
So recognize that the comparative to a social security system is one wherein people plan for their own retirement, so they take that money and they invest it into something where the value of that money increases.
Here's the problem, right now that money just goes into tax offers.
It doesn't invest into anything.
Doesn't really grow in any meaningful sense.
It just stays there and then it gets put to somebody else.
So this is economically inefficient for two reasons.
First is that the comparative again is like investment in things that actually grow your wealth and grow the economy at large because there's like more activity going on so multiplier effects things like.
But secondly, you don't account for inflation when it's just sitting in a coffer there.
Like when it's just like sitting in whatever social security office like the money is literally worth less when you pay it back out.
Like this is a just horribly inefficient system and just a ridiculous way of trying to allocate for people's retirements.
Like even if you buy that some people are just going to be bad at paying for their retirements, it makes so much more sense to let the people who actually are capable of planning for their retirements to invest the money, have those investments taxed, and use that money to pay for social welfare programs for the people that couldn't get retirement stuff together in the short term.
Like this is just the most ridiculous way of paying for people and actually ensuring a good quality of life for seniors and it just makes infinitely more sense to allow people to make their own decisions with their retirement funds and then tax those good decisions to pay for the people that made bad decisions.
Proud to propose.