I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban whaling.
Two independent points.
First is that animal rights exist and that you know obviously whaling is in violation of those.
So on what the standard is for animal rights we would say that generally the standard by which we apply whether or not something has rights is whether or not it can experience pain and pleasure.
You know this is a pretty simple metric.
We think that generally speaking when suffering happens in the world that is a bad thing and that's really just the most you know fundamental building block that we know how to apply rights to.
Other standards that exclude animals such as sanctions or intelligence probably aren't very consistent one with just the way that humans assign rights for example, we don't you know assign less moral worth to people who are less intelligent but also just you know not very fundamentally good standards.
They're based on the idea that just because someone you know doesn't have the the the the the intelligence to actually you know do specific tasks or whatever that are more less arbitrarily defined, that therefore they shouldn't you know matter if they're experiencing suffering.
The standard there doesn't really make a lot of sense.
It doesn't seem to be applied in a you know very reasonable way and at that point the better standard is of course just broadly saying if something is experiencing suffering that's bad and we should mitigate it including if that something is an animal.
So at that point then, obviously we would say that if whales have rights they probably shouldn't be you know hunted down and killed.
You know the right to life is pretty important one.
Because it's facilitative to anything else that you can do but also in terms of you know even if you assume that you know death is okay as long as it's painless, we would say that whaling isn't particularly painless.
Usually the process that they use in hunting involves you know injuring a whale over days and days and days of hunting it down and this is obviously quite a painful process for the whale.
It inflicts a lot of suffering.
So at that point, it doesn't seem particularly reasonable to say that you know this is something that we should deem acceptable.
Our second independent point is that even if you assume that there's no animal rights and that you know the whale doesn't have any rights whatsoever, that there are still impacts on humans particularly through overfishing.
So whales are an endangered species largely as a product of the fact that they've been so you know violently hunted down over the years and the problem from human's perspective here is that they're quite reliant on a lot of you know things that whales provide whether that's you know blubber or their skeletal structure these are really important to humans.
So even if you want to take the perspective that it's okay to hunt whales and it's okay to harvest them if we are so reliant on these you know goods that are produced by whales then it's only reasonable to institute a short term band at least to ensure that the population can actually stabilize and get back up to a level that is you know actually feasible for them to continue their survival and then resume hunting at a point where you know you actually can say that we're not going to drive the species to extinction by continuing our hunting.
So at a dead minimum don't you need a short term band just you know from the most extremely human center perspective.
Proud to propose.