I am proud to oppose the motion that we should subsidize higher education.
Our first independent point is that this policy is regressive.
So, government talks pretty extensively about why, if we subsidize higher education, that will allow them to, you know, essentially accrue more benefits to lower class individuals and bring more people into the educational system.
I think the problem with this is that the status quo is not one wherein like extremely poor people get to go to college at all.
In fact, generally the public schools are seeing like primarily like middle and upper middle class individuals, whereas the private schools see upper class individuals.
The problem, then, in this comparative is that even if you expanded that net, you're still taking your tax money and putting it to people who are pretty well-off.
We think that, generally, suffering through lack of lack of access to economic resources is non-linear, that is to say that suffering is exponentially greater as you move down the scale towards lower income individuals.
And as such, taking the tax money of the lower classes and using it to subsidize the middle class is inherently unjust.
You are telling people, " we're going to take your scarce resources, and we're going to give those resources to people who are better-off. "
Even if you expand the floor, we still think that floor is high enough that the people you're taking the money from are going to disproportionately be people who won't benefit from this anyway.
As such, this is not a just policy and doesn't actually accrue the benefits that are explained by side government.
But secondly, we think that this actually inflates costs of higher education and as such, is necessarily damaging.
So the reason this is true is that usually universities have structural incentives to spend money on things that aren't necessarily within the lines of the best education possible, for example, ballooning administrative costs in recent years.
The problem is that when you create these subsidies and you give money to the universities, they'll often just use them to justify increasing tuition costs.
So they'll basically say: look, well, we'll use these subsidies , you know, towards the poorer students in our school, but we're going to broadly increase tuition prices in a way that really like steps down on like middle class students.
The problem with this, then, is that now you're not comparing the middle class , you know, to the lower class in a way that makes the middle class the the groups that really shouldn't benefit at the expense of the lower class, rather you're just saying that these, you know, subsidies maintain current admission costs for poorer students in the system, but increase costs for everybody else.
That's a harm, then, that's articulated largely onto students that just shouldn't have to deal with rising costs, in general, because, as government points out, education is a proactive right, because it's facilitative to so much else.
We think, then, that this is a problem, because we don't want to take money out of the pockets, even of the upper middle class and richer students, if the tradeoff is that that money just goes to ballooning administrative costs, a wealth transfer that, of course, benefits the wealthy.
It's not generally the case that this money goes to like services that would benefit the student population in general.
And as such, then, we don't think that this tradeoff is meaningful or justified.
As such, we think that these subsidies are used inefficiently, and even absent the measurable harms they create, there's just an obvious comparative of better investments that could help the poor in this country, like, for example you know, welfare, social security, snap, that sort of thing.
Proud to oppose.