I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should subsidize public service broadcasters.
Two independent points.
The first is that public service broadcasters provide a public good.
I think this happens in a lot of different ways.
The first is just information.
So there are news organizations that operate in the public sector.
There's a lot of you know very good journalism coming out of you know national public radio institutions like that, and I think the fundamental reason for that is that they're not beholden to a financial interest you know whereas something like fox news or MSN BC has a financial incentive to you know skew their news in a particular way in order to secure a certain client base public radio doesn't really have that incentive.
They have the capacity to be oh you know pretty hard-hitting and you know be pretty frank and unbiased in their reporting by virtue of the fact that they're you know not looking to secure a certain fan base or anything like that.
There are certainly going to be like allegations of course that they're left-leaning.
That's probably true that they're broadly left-leaning but I think the reason for that has more to do with I mean quite frankly the nature the facts of what they're reporting on that you know just a lot of the issues that are currently relevant lean left when you look at them through a factual analysis something like healthcare which is pretty objective that republicans are botching.
Something like you know right structures like right and things like that which is you know clearly you have just like the left on the right side of history and I think that's the product of where you know public radio's bias comes from but not a real bias but we're just biased towards factual analysis.
The second justification for why public radio has a public good is the educational component and I think this is a lot more objective is it is things like for example mister roger's neighborhood back in the nineties but you know more modern day something like sesame street has a really serious educational value to it.
This ranges from you know really simple things like teaching kids you know spelling and counting and things like that all the way to like really big picture lessons like sesame street will quite often have segments about you know you know mental health stigma or disabilities or things like that, things that children might not often get access to in school certainly because schools are much more focused on academic things but also through parents because a lot of the time you know you need this education coming from someone that's a professional in what they're doing teaching about mental health stigma from a parent you can certainly attempt that but I think you're just always going to get a much better lesson out of someone that's an actual professional in the mental health field and public service rate public broadcasting enables that education to come straight into someone's home from a professional's mouth at you know of course no expense to the family.
And lastly I think there's a public good provided by the fact that public broadcasting can experiment more.
This is getting back to the financial interest really, is that you have more room to innovate in the public sector in this which is a bit counterintuitive but because you're not beholden to you know a particular fan base and you're not looking to secure a specific audience, you have the freedom to innovate and you have the freedom to really push the boundaries.
I think there's a lot of radio programs out right now that demonstrate that, things like s-town for example and it's it's valuable when you have that innovation both from an entertainment perspective but also from an educational and information standpoint.
Our second independent, briefly, is just that public radio broadcasting broadly can't survive without these subsidies.
This isn't a profitable endeavor.
This is something that actually you know is able to provide these things because it doesn't have a financial incentive.
It specifically targets people that cannot pay for these services and at that point then it's important to ensure that sort of public sector or governmental support for the programs because without that support you don't get these benefits.
There isn't an alternative policy that solves for this, there isn't alternative way to get these types of benefits this is it and I think that justifies a subsidy.
Proud to propose.