I'm proud to stand in proposition today of the motion that we should abolish no knock warrants.
Two independent points: first, that they increase the likelihood of violent confrontations and second, that the majority of the crimes that they're actually used to crackdown on aren't significant enough to justify even small externalities.
On the first point, that they increase the likelihood of violent confrontations.
When the police don't knock on the door of a home or any sort of building that they are about to enter, the suspect doesn't have time to react.
Now the rationale behind this is that oh well, if the suspect has enough time to react, they won't have time to flush something down the toilet or hide behind a door where they can you know position themselves to attack the officers as they enter.
The problem with this reasoning is that all that really happens is the suspect has less time to act rationally.
So the counter factual here is a suspect having time to maybe flush something down the toilet versus a suspect just being crept up on in their living room or kitchen or what have you.
That's a problem because generally people in situations like that don't act super rationally.
When your back is literally against the wall you are prone to violent outbursts.
So let's talk about the ways this can play out.
First, even in the most generous situation, let's say this is a super guilty person who's definitely like a drug lord and just a horrible person.
It's still bad if that person dies.
Like that person has rights.
They are a human being who, if they die, that is a thing that we should avoid if possible.
Secondly, even if you don't want to take that hard line and you think, oh like this is just a terrible person who deserves to die no matter what, the police can get harmed in these situations.
Like this is really, really dangerous to put lots of officers generally in this sort of line of fire where they are dealing with a suspect who is probably not reacting in the most rational, straightforward way and is prone to violent outbursts.
And third, and I think probably the most important, is the way this plays out when the no knock warrant is issued for the wrong address.
This happens with fairly shocking frequency.
Where because of faulty information or just mistakes the warrant is issued or the police go to even just the wrong address.
This generally then results in innocent families having no knock warrants sprung upon them.
This is a problem for two reasons.
One is just sort of the obvious like warrant is issued to a bad place and police now break into an innocent person's home.
But generally these situations are quite tense because people don't even understand why there are police officers barging into their homes.
Now this does fall under the category of violent escalation sometimes through police brutality and things of the sort.
But also it's important to recognize that it is much easier to resolve the situation when a knock happens.
Like if you knock on the door and you're like, this is the police, open up, a normal person just goes to the door and opens up.
Right?
Like this is a significantly less tense, less error prone situation.
Quickly on the second point, generally these warrants are used to implement drug laws.
Like the thing that is generally being flushed down the toilet is drugs because there's really not much else that goes in the way of evidence of a crime that could be flushed down a toilet.
I think the problem here is that because of a lot of factors paternalism, cartel violence that's exacerbated by drug laws, disproportionate impacts upon community of color, it's important to recognize that realistically the implementation of these laws just isn't worth the really serious harms that are generated by these warrants.
Proud to propose.