I'm proud to stand in opposition in today's motion that we should enact direct democracy.
I think it's important to recognize that generally speaking, we believe in representative democracies because we recognize that individual people don't have the time or necessary investments to actually learn the nuts and bolts of every single policy that comes before a government.
We elect these people on the basis that we may get somebody's full time job to actually understand these policy proposals and understand what they are enacting.
It's not fair to to expect every individual person within the society to actually make these decisions.
Three independent points: first, that information asymmetries exist between people and the representatives we elect and it is more likely to result in good policy when we allow elected officials to make these decisions.
Secondly, tyranny of the majority, and third that public opinion shifts often and that this will lead to reckless forms of government.
So, on the first independent point of asymmetries - I think it is just reasonable to start by saying the potato farmers probably don't know like that nuts and bolts of finance, and likewise bankers probably don't know the nuts and bolts of potato farming and agricultural regulation.
Like it is important to recognize that people don't have the ability to spend their waking hours learning the nuts and bolts of other people's lives and the policy recommendations that would maximize pleasure within a society.
Gal tells you that there is no objective truth.
That there is no objective thing that makes the world better.
I think those objective measures are just pain and pleasure.
Whether or not people are happier on a day to day basis as a result of the policies passed by our government, that is the objective measure that I in fine defending as what we should be striving to achieve.
So, recognize first that experts are more likely to decide correctly because not only do they have the time to sink into just researching all of these issues extensively, but also they understand things like bills, right?
Like it's worth noting underneath this that like california, for example, has rampant instances of referenda that are deliberately worded confusingly so as to ensure that people who introduce these bills get what they want.
I think when you have legislators making these decisions, whose job it is to decipher these really complicated bills and bizarrely written things, you are more likely to get decisions made on the basis of what actually wants actually supposed to be implemented.
But beyond this, I think there's just more discourse when you have this.
Because it is happening in the public eye, because there are public officials making these decisions, you have more like people talking about what the correct move is because you have to evaluate the actions of those people.
Second independent point is tyranny of the majority.
This is especially true within like oppressive structures like ones based on class or race or gender or things like that.
It is marginally tougher when legislators are directly accountable for their votes to actually make these discriminatory decisions.
These people have to get on the public stage and defend why they voted for something like the bathroom bill, right?
Like like they have to defend the notion that they caught up there and supported this thing.
When the silent majority can engage in oppressive tactics against minority populations on the basis that they're just like not going to be held accountable, that they don't have to fend their votes publicly to any sort of angry base or anything like that.
And as a result you get lots of echo chambers, lots of people not talking about why they did things and lots of people not being forced to rationalize their own decisions and just sort of voting off of their gut, that usually links into some sort of oppressive structure.
Third independent point is public opinion shifts often.
This is just true, right?
Like people waffle a lot on decisions, changing demographics mean changing public opinion on any number of issues and basically the kneel sways back and forth over fifty percent very frequently on a lot of issues.
That's a problem.
Because it means then that under direct democracy system we had massively massive fluctuations in what public policy actually is.
The law would change often.
That's a problem for the executive branch because it means they have to switch back and forth between implementing two different worlds on a regular basis.
That creates a less stable state, creates less capacity for the government to effectively regulate things, like safety regulations and things like that, and it makes for a world that is necessarily worse off because the government is less capable of acting upon the roles of the citizens.
Look, I think it is fair to say that people should have a role in their government, that they should have a say in what people do.
That's why we elect representatives.
But I don't think that you get more direct engagement with the world that people actually want, with better pleasure, through direct democracy.
Proud to oppose.