I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should subsidize public service broadcasters.
My first independent point is that public service broadcasters are often extremely prone to bias.
I think, broadly, there's two ways that this can play out.
The first is, shockingly, a pro government stance.
So I think that gov kind of talks about really selective examples like the like BBC and PBS as like what their version of public service broadcasting is.
But the reality is that like the gold standard is probably not what's going to be implemented in most countries.
I think something that's much more representative of the mean is state owned media, like what you see in russia or china, that is the state's primary incentive is to ensure that their goals and their incentives are met and as such, having a state arm they can influence public opinion is extremely beneficial.
Given that, I think public service broadcasting will often look a lot more like pro government propaganda, not just because they're established by the government but also because they're funded by the government.
So even if they're nominally independent in their leadership decisions they don't want to make decisions that will result in them losing funding from the government structure and as such will often be, you know, very generous in their coverage of government actions.
But the second way we think this plays out, like even in these gold standard institutions like the BBC and PBS, is a significant liberal lean.
So I think like NPR in the united states for example is notorious for its aggressive liberal lean, like even more so than like institutions like the new york times which gov points out is like their example of like an aggressive liberal lean.
The problem with this, specifically the reason why there's such a liberal lean in public broadcasting, is that the donor base that keeps it running is often itself very liberal.
Fiscal conservatives in government are often unwilling to grant large amounts of money to public broadcasters.
This means then that, two things, one, it's the liberal lawmakers their indebted to to ensure their continuity but also in order to make up for the funding gap they have to essentially look to a donor base that is generally going to be quite liberal because these are the type of like college educated demographics that are often prone to listen to public radio in the first place.
This then means that there isn't really much of a moderating influence on the general media marketplace.
The race to the bottom type stuff, for example, the gulf talks about isn't really affected if your, you know, news outlet has a specific lean to it.
Our second independent point is that this is just a poor way for governments to spend money.
We think that from a principle perspective government shouldn't spend money on, you know, market places that are already meeting demand.
We think the media is a really oversaturated market to begin with and we don't need more institutions flooding in that crowded space.
It makes more sense then to spend this money on things that, you know, are currently underfunded and underutilized things like for example like social safety nets or other, you know, like infrastructure projects for example.
We think that there are just better ways to improve our country and our economy than spending this money on public service broadcasting.
Our third and final independent point is that public service broadcasters distort the marketplace.
So what we mean by this is that there is a marketplace of , you know, private media institutions like you know NBC fox, CNN, sort of stuff, and that in turn makes up what sort of the general news landscape looks like.
We think that introducing a company that operates by a different set of incentives distorts the marketplace in such a way that mitigates the efficacy of its ability to report accurately.
Because that individual institution is supported by a government safety net they don't have to worry about the general incentives of the marketplace in as such actually facilitate a race to the bottom by forcing other institutions to drive their profits higher and higher to compete.
Proud to oppose.