I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should subsidize electric cars.
We'll do this through the standard government subsidy process, which is just too essentially have a bidding process, for you know which manufactures prove that they are making the most significant advances in the field, and then subsidize that process so that they could use it for overhead research costs are things like that.
Essentially to accelerate the rate at which these products become affordable for you know the large portion of americans, or at least just a larger portion of americans.
So three independent points: first is global warming.
We think that electric cars can mitigate the emissions that are you know produced by standard you know fossil fuels using cars.
Automobile emissions are a pretty significant portion of you know greenhouse gas emissions worldwide, and we think that by you know essentially cutting this out, by replacing them with electric cars we can mitigate the extent to which we are actively contributing to global warming.
Global warming has obviously a pretty significant impact.
This is something that provide poses an existential threat to not just humanity, but also animal species around the world, by changing habitats, weather patterns, introducing more extreme weather, also rising sea levels that threaten to displace you know millions if not billions of people.
This is a really significant issue and we think that even you know marginal policies that we can approach towards you know mitigating the impact of it are always going to have massive effects because of the the you know basically the the starting point.
That even if we you know reduce the effects of global warming by like a percent by implementing this policy, that's still a lot of lives saved.
That's still a lot of land saved, that's still an important drop in the bucket.
Our second independent point is that finite resources limit the long term feasibility of fossil fuels consuming cars.
So this is both from a practical perspective and from a financial perspective.
In the short term, there's a financial problem with using fossil fuels.
That because these are a finite resource there will come a time when the price increases drastically due to decreased supply.
That's a problem obviously because automobiles, particularly in western liberal democracies, are a really significantly important way of getting around.
In fact this is probably even more true in the developing world because of the lack of a sustainable public transit infrastructure.
So, it's important then to ensure that automobile use can remain relatively affordable.
Getting electric cars then to a point of affordability is an important goal to ensure that when fossil fuels inevitably become extremely expensive, people that need automobiles for day to day operations like getting to work can continue to do so.
But secondly we think that the even longer term makes fossil fuels just outright impossible to use.
That's important then because we need technology that can supplant fossil fuels as our energy source for mobility.
And if we don't have a feasible alternative in something like electric cars, then we don't have a mechanism by which to actually you know use cars in the first place.
So there's an extreme need then to ensure that these technologies become feasible in the long term.
Our third independent point is just air quality.
That even if you disregard all the environmental impacts you know in terms of global warming, there's still just like really tangible things that you can see in terms of urban smog and what not.
You don't need to look much further than china for example, for instances of where just large amounts of our emissions generated by automobiles can create really significant impacts on you know smog and air quality broadly.
This has both like an inconvenience factor, in that it just you know makes it less pleasurable to live in an area, but also health impacts.
You know carcinogens that are intrinsic to this smog and breathing quality.
You know higher rates of asthma, they're intrinsic to this smog.
So we think that there's a significant quality of life benefit then to transitioning to a world where we primarily use electric cars.
Proud to propose.