I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban corporal punishment.
I want to start this speech with a little overview on what constitutes corporal punishment though because I think there's a very bizarre interpretation that we get out of government.
I don't think that corporal punishment really is what government portrays us, like this like horrible draconian like abuse.
Child abuse is obviously illegal, so like doing something that's like seriously damaging, scarring them, like I don't know like whipping them or something incredibly extreme like that is obviously going to be illegal on either side of the house.
We would say that anything that constitutes like assault from a legal perspective on another person is always going to remain illegal.
I think when we talk about corporal punishment we're talking about like spanking a child, or like at worst like a hit on the hand with a ruler.
This is definitely something that will like cause some degree of pain, but when we're talking about like things that leave scars like what government says, like I don't think that's in the realm of corporal punishment.
It is necessary to draw a line between like actual child abuse and corporal punishment.
With that, to independent points: the first is like sort of the ways in which corporal punishment work and why it's an effective method of parenting.
So what we think is uniquely beneficial about corporal punishment is that, especially for small children, it is an effective way of communicating the difference between good and bad.
At a young age, children's language skills aren't very developed.
So when the alternative to corporal punishment is simply telling a child like: " that's bad.
You shouldn't like steel from the cookie jar. "
Or whatever, it usually doesn't come through very effectively.
Because they don't have the language skills to really wrap their head around complex notions like good and bad.
So instead, some sort of corporal punishment, like light spanking, is more effective that actually demonstrating like: " this is a thing that happens when you do a bad thing, and as such you shouldn't do it. "
To be absolutely clear, we think the effective parenting method is to combine both things.
So not just to like randomly hit your child and expect that they get why something is bad.
Like you you do corporal punishment coupled with the other stuff, like telling them this is something that's bad, and this is why it's bad, and this is why you shouldn't do it.
But we think that a combination of the two methods as a simply more effective parenting method.
Our second independent point though is the choice of the parents to engage in the parenting style that works best for their kid.
So we're certainly not going to come up here and claim that like corporal punishment is what's best for every child.
But we think that different parenting methods couple well with different personality types for children.
So some children are simply going to respond better to like more physical of methods than they are to simply being told not to do something.
We think that that this choice though makes most sense in the hands of the parent, because the parent knows the child best at an individual level.
When the government just sort of like decrease: " look, like this never works for anybody. "
We think that for large swaths of children the best possible parenting methods are being selected out by essentially some like random bureaucrat in washington.
We don't think that that's a reasonable way to go about government policy.
Rather, we think that because parents are sort of the best proxy for the best interest of the child, we should allow them to make the decision.
And again, like because abuse is still illegal like even if, like there will obviously be some parents whose interpretation of corporal punishment is a little liberal.
We think that there are still like effective reporting methods and things like that to bring those parents under the purview of the state and prosecute them.
What's important though is ensuring that the parents who engage in proper corporal punishment in like a responsible and effective sense are not punished arbitrarily for doing what works best for their child.
Proud to oppose.