I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should subsidize higher education.
Primarily we'll do this through a, you know, targeted financial aid to students who are currently incapable of paying for college, but we'll also principally defend policies that just generally funnel money into the public education system or public higher education system.
Colleges, public universities, even subsidies to private universities, anything that is principally consistent with the notion that simply more people should receive a quality college education.
Our first point that we'd like to establish is that education is a right.
And specifically higher education.
The reason why this is true is that it's facilitative to other really important rights.
Things like, you know, economic well being which in turn ties into, you know, health and what not.
But also in terms of right to free speech.
It ensures that you're well informed about the things that are happening in the world around you and what got us to this point.
It ensures that you're , you know, capable of being a full participant in a modern democracy.
And this level of information, this understanding the world around you, is really deeply deeply important to the value system that we hold in particularly western liberal democracies.
At that point then, because education is facilitative to so much else that we hold dear, it itself becomes a fundamental right.
If you need you know, if you deem, you know, health for example to be something that is just fundamental, that everybody should have access to, because it itself is facilitative to your right to life, then anything that is facilitative to good health such as the, you know, economic well being associated with a college degree is equally important.
Our second independent point is that college itself though uniquely increases socioeconomic mobility, oftentimes a significant driver in your the ignobility of people to rise up from, you know, poorer classes and themselves become rich and breaking out of you know cycles of poverty by extension, is education.
If you are growing up in a poor neighborhood, you often have poor primary and secondary education, and by extension find it difficult to get into college and find new gainful employment after that and as a result your children are raised in a similarly poor environment, where they have less access to the resources that other more wealthy families have.
Allowing programs though that, you know, break through this cycle and fund you know less financially capable individuals of going to college, that in turn means that you can break out of these cycles of poverty and you can allow people to you know basically rise a status beyond what was deemed by the economic circumstances they were born into.
Our third and final point that we want to establish here is that this is a public good.
I think a lot of the opposition to subsidizing higher education comes out of the notion that: " oh well, you know it's my taxpayer dollars so I'm not gonna pay for something that I don't personally benefit from. "
The problem with this is that education, like more wide education, does provide a public good.
People who graduate from college are, you know, less likely to commit crime.
Largely by function of the fact that they are less likely to experience poverty and less likely to feel that economic need to commit crime.
The quality of your work force increases when it's more educated and you become more internationally competitive with countries that have less access to higher education and less access to the tools that are necessary to create a well built workforce.
You overall just create a better society for an individual to live in.
This is something that is mutually beneficial, has significant externalities that benefit the general public and when you have this ability to educate your entire population, or at least more significant portions of your population, properly and thoroughly, you live in a better world.
Proud to propose.