I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce national service.
Our first independent point is that this is rights violative, that essentially consigning people into action, particularly dangerous action, is an infringement upon one's autonomy.
We think that autonomy matters simply because for two reasons, one, it is you know fundamental to our abilities as a human to do as we please.
The only reason we care about most things is because it gives us the ability to do as we please, for example the only reason we care about a right to life is because we want to be able to as we please with that life.
We generally don't put like a high value on a life where like you were just like locked in a dark dungeon chained up for the rest of your life, so the ability to do as one pleases is extremely important.
But secondly we care about autonomy because we as individuals understand what is best for our own interests much more so than the government does.
So with such it is bad when the government consigns us into action that we didn't consent into on the basis that this isn't something that we as individuals decide is what's in our best interests.
So this then obviously constitutes of pretty blatant violation of autonomy because you're telling people that for two years of their lives they have to work for the military.
In addition to the fact that being told you have to work for x is itself a violation of autonomy the military itself is an extremely rigid, hierarchical system where one is expected to do exactly as one is told.
This in turn then means that people don't have much of a say in, you know, what they do with their lives for those two years and we think that's a very significant rights violation.
Our second independent point is that this is increases the likelihood of military action.
So government makes a point of saying that people are more likely to oppose military action when a significant portion of the population is involved in the military and that in the status quo we are eager to engage in conflicts because the people that are actually going into conflict are the people that are most eager to do so because they signed up.
I think the misunderstanding that's inherent here is that generally when you have national service like this not most people go into like actual like front lines fighting, for the most part they're working in support roles.
So the people that are actually in harm's way are largely going to be the people that said they were okay with that, especially because the military of the modern day sees a declining need for actual foot soldiers and more for people that are say operating drones.
That in turn means that realistically there isn't going to be much of a change in terms of , you know, who's going into the front lines and therefore the safety concerns of the individual soldiers.
Two things though are going to change.
First I think there's going to be more public comfort with war, insofar as more people in the public will have had direct experience with the military there will be sort of more of a culture of just respecting the military flagrantly and without reason often simply because there are personal connections to that institution.
But secondly, we think that there's going to be more willingness to engage in military action because there'll be more capacity.
With a more robust support staff militaries will be capable of essentially going to war with less fear of actually losing or sustaining large damages because there will be more people supporting it.
This we think is a problem simply because war is bad and causes lots of suffering, often needlessly, and often to advance political agendas that are of questionable merit.
Our final independent point is this is a massive expenditure.
Gov specifically touts the like job skills development benefits of this, you're paying people salaries though, like this is a huge amount of money going into a program with questionable merit.
I think if you just had like an actual job training program that would be significantly more affective on a dollar to person ratio.
Proud to oppose.