I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the social security tax.
Two independent points of analysis.
First, that we have a proactive obligation to support elders but secondly, that the means of taxation and the means by which we implement this program is justified counter to what government has told you.
First on the notion that we should support elders.
I think this is true for really two reasons.
First is that the capacity to support themselves doesn't exist at this point in life.
To an extend this is fairly intuitive that when you have become a certain age, it is generally difficult to support yourself through the traditional labor market.
This is because the ailments associated with old age just make it difficult for someone who is in their seventies or eighties to continue working a nine to five job.
Generally there are medical complications that interfere with your capacity to continue this type of work and generally speaking it is necessary for some sort of support system.
The second point under this, which directly clashes with what gov told you, is that the self regulation that they insist upon is inefficient and in oftentimes is completely impossible.
So this is truth again for two reasons.
First, is that we're not all financial whizzes.
As ideal as it would be to have a system where everyone just handles their own retirement, that's not a reasonable expectation.
Not everybody is that good at managing their finances and I think it is unfair to say oh you aren't good at managing your finances when you were in your twenties or thirties or whatever your primary years were, therefore you deserve to die at age seventy because you didn't plan well enough when you were a kid.
Like I just don't think that this is a reasonable thing to say and that this is a fair thing to say.
But secondly, that self regulation in that capacity to save for retirement literally isn't possible for a significant number of people because they don't have the financial means to do so.
The reality that the bottom twenty percent or so of earners within the country are living paycheck to paycheck, means you just cannot save for retirement.
You don't have the financial means to do so.
So it's important to have a government program that provides financial backing to those people so that they have a way to survive once they have passed the capacity to actually work for a living and make their money in that sense.
Yes it is probably true that some people in like the lower or true middle class are somewhat like disadvantaged by the system that is how redistributive taxes work.
We are completely fine with taking money away from people that have a bit more means and bringing it to the people that don't have means.
This leads me into my second point of analysis that the tax itself is justified.
So two things under this.
First is just the redistributive point I just made that we are completely fine with taking away from the haves and giving it to the have-nots especially when there is a clear desert claim for the have-nots that they didn't do anything to deserve the position that they are in.
That this is just a natural thing that you just get old and you are not capable of working.
Our current system of making money and surviving doesn't work for these people and the fact that they have gotten old doesn't mean that they deserve to die or deserve to at best wither away and poverty.
But secondly is that the young, the people that government seems to be defending in this situation, have the means.
They have the capacity to shave off a bit of their paycheck on a day to day earner on a week to week basis and say yes we can put this to a system that benefits the elderly, that benefits the have-nots.
I think this is really important because yes, well it does kind of screw over some people in the short term and yes, while the population is rising and this is an expensive system to maintain, the alternative is having no support network something that is really really bad and would result in a lot of people suffering to a large extent.
I think given that counter-factual we are fine with that unfairness and we are fine with that degree of expenditures that are generated on side opposition, proud to oppose.