I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban surrogacy.
Three independent points: first is that this is an extension of bodily autonomy and surrogates have the right to make this decision if they please.
The reason we think that government should respect the right to autonomy is that people, on an individual basis and not an external third party actor, are most aware of their individual preferences and as such, what is best for them.
We think that while surrogacy is obviously not going to be the right choice for everybody, we think there are certainly people for whom the cash payout or even just the altruistic benefits outweigh the the harms associated with that pregnancy.
These are subjective analyses.
That is to say that different people put different premiums on that suffering and that monetary payout and that altruism and as such individual people are in the best decision to decide whether or not the costs are worth the the harms are worth the benefits.
Given that then, we think that it is an extension of bodily autonomy that is an extremely fundamental right to make this decision about what to do with your body and that is fundamentally problematic for the state to make that decision for you.
This is something that people do consent into with proper information contrary to government's assertions.
Specifically what government tells you is that because there is a expectation of pregnancy being easier than people think so that there is a problem then with allowing them to consent into this particular behavior.
We think there's two problems with that: the first is that this reasoning just says that no one should ever be able to consent into pregnancy itself.
That then I think is ridiculous in and of itself at the point where this is something that we have to let people consent into because it's an extension of their bodily autonomy and it's fundamentally ridiculous to draw the line at just well is there a different benefit that's also associated with it.
But secondly, I think there's a problem with this because I think people are capable of wrapping their heads around, you know, what this is going to be like and what the implications are.
I think most of the time the regulatory structure behind this industry requires people to be consulted before doing this the first time so they will be able to understand what the implications are to the greatest extent possible, but I also think that just discursively people understand that pregnancy sucks.
This isn't a secret, no one's trying to hide this from anybody, and I think this is public information.
At that point then, I think people have the information they need to make that decision.
Our second independent point is access to parenthood.
So we think that the government's primary obligation should be to maximize happiness and we think that parenthood is one of the most supreme forms of happiness.
This is something that's systemically important to people's lives and often to self actualization of what they consider to be a higher purpose.
At that point, we think that policies they can increase people's ability to access parenthood when they so desire are necessarily beneficial.
Lots of couples are infertile for one reason or another and as such we think that this policy uniquely allows couples to access the benefits of parenthood in ways that might not have been accessible before.
Our third and final point is the black market, essentially.
We think that realistically there is so much demand for surrogacy because it is seen as a natural process where one can have a child that is, you know, of your own you know your own bodily you know outputs essentially, that the black market is going to naturally exist.
If there is demand for a service or product, it will exist and surrogacy is particularly hard to crackdown on because you can't really just like randomly subject people to like maternity and paternity tests if they're pregnant.
At that point, it seems really difficult to figure out a way to actually ensure that you know these individuals like can't just have some sort of unregulated black market and at that point we think that all the harms articulated by side government are exponentially worse in a world where the it's the state can't come in and enact reasonable regulations.
Proud to oppose.