I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should end athletic scholarships for college students.
Two independent points structured roughly the same way that government took this.
First, I'm going to tell you about why this is good for the students who receive the scholarships, and second, why this is beneficial to the overall educational landscape.
So, first with regards to the students: we think that, much like government tries to hint at, there is a a benefit intrinsic to these scholarships in that they increase socioeconomic mobility for individuals that often wouldn't have the means to attend college.
So, specifically what we think happens here is that oftentimes college education is more accessible to richer students, a: because they just have the money to pay for it, and b: because they had the money to pay for tutors and things like that earlier in their education, which then gave them academically a leg up on lower-income students.
So as such, we think that the earlier education system, like the primary and secondary level, is structurally broken in favor of richer students.
So, what we think, then, the athletic scholarships do is provide a secondary path to higher education.
We think that getting into college based on athletic talent is more accessible to poorer students, because the types of things that make you good at being an athlete, such as like discipline and like physical strength, are things that you can generally train for even if you don't have access to the same resources.
We obviously recognize that being able to afford like a good coach is something that will still give people a leg up, but we think it's less profound than like a good math teacher, because the basic concepts of training are things that are relatively, you know, easy to wrap your head around.
The average person can just look at that and be like, " okay, this is the workout I need. "
We also think that a lot of this information can be found online now, so it's a pretty accessible path to success.
Given that then, we think that college is uniquely beneficial in that it can break cyclical poverty, that is, that a lot of the reason why people who are born poor stay poor is because of lack of access to quality education ensures that they can't find high-paying jobs later on in life.
And as such, poverty stays within families essentially, that it is difficult to break out of the cycle.
We think that college and the educational and career opportunities it affords an individual uniquely can break this cycle.
So even if someone doesn't make the pros after college, we still think that there is a profound benefit in increasing the number of people who access it.
Government tries to tell you that the problem with this is that people can't meaningfully consent into this decision because you're holding their education over their head, but we think the problem is that the comparative is also a world with no education.
So even if the college has leverage over the student, it's a profound benefit that they cannot access on the other side of the house.
And as such, on the margins, even if the system isn't perfect, we believe that it benefits the individual profoundly.
But secondly, we'd like to talk briefly about how this affects the university.
So, specifically, government asserts that this is a drain on university finances and that, you know, money is fungible and it could be spent elsewhere.
I think the problem that government fails to over to fails to grapple with is that these programs bring revenue to the school, like they are net like revenue positive.
So when the school's coffers are expanded as a result of the are expanded as a result of the fact that you now have this, you know, stream of money coming in, it's important to recognize that that can then be transferred off to students and academic programs that government is so concerned with, ensuring the preservation of.
I think at the point where you can take this money and take the revenue from sports teams and reinvest into new buildings or hiring more teachers or whatever, that's something that has a profoundly positive effect on the education of everyone that goes to the school.
But we also think the quality of life , you know, benefits of just having a sports team that you can root for at your school also increases the positive experience of going to college.
So we think that for the broader university, this is something that's beneficial.
Proud to oppose.