I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should end athletic scholarships.
Two independent points: first, athletic scholarships are beneficial to colleges and academic institutions as a whole.
This is for really two reasons.
The first is that the programs generate money which then goes to academics.
So, when you have these sort of like athletic scholarship programs, they're largely funded by like grants, corporate sponsorships, like all sorts of like ways in like just selling the seats you know, selling like TV rights, to like TV stations that want to broadcast the games.
There are lots of ways these bring money into the college, and while gov is correct to point out that a lot of money gets spent on these programs, building stadiums and things like that, there is also a lot more money coming in, and this usually gets redirected to academic programs.
This is important, because the primary purpose of colleges should be academics, that is, that it actually ensures that students are well educated.
It gives them the product that they purchased, and it also creates a societal good.
So when the athletic programs actually funnel money into the university, that's a good thing.
And athletic scholarships facilitate this by making athletic careers at colleges more attractive and thereby increasing the talent pool of those athletic programs, thus making them more desirable to watch, making them more competitive, insuring more corporate sponsors will be interested in sponsoring them, and so on.
It is a way of facilitating another thing that is a good.
But secondly, it helps colleges and college students by just being a thing that increases the quality of life on campus.
I think much in the same way that like nice, well-designed, habitable dorms are a good thing, even though they're not intrinsically important to the quality of education, it is something that we can just generally defend because colleges, at the end of the day, are selling students a product.
That is, the student pays like, whatever, sixty thousand dollars a year to go to this place, there is a reason they pay that much.
It is because the university provides things that are pleasing to the students' quality of life.
And we defense things, like competitive sports, that are fun to watch and improve that quality of life, not just because it is good when people have a higher quality of life, but also because that higher quality of life facilitates the goals, like scholarship, that it is easier to be invested in your classes when your life is just generally good, and you're not miserable because you're bored when you're not in classes.
Like providing these forms of letting stress out and enjoying yourself are facilitative to the other goals of academic institutions.
But secondly, we would say that these athletic scholarships provide an opportunity for poor individuals and minorities.
This is the second independent point.
So, we would say that this is a path towards a higher education with less barriers than something like like being extremely studious and doing well on tests, and the reason for this is twofold.
First is that rich, well-educated people generally tend to value the well-educated path to getting into college.
That is, that the people that these poor people and minorities actually have to compete with for seats in the college are all taking the education path to get there.
So insofar as that's the more crowded path, we think there's going to be less structural barriers to trying to take the athletic scholarship path to get into college.
Secondly, if you ban one of the paths, obviously the first one gets way more crowded.
So again, it's going to be tougher for poor and minority students to get through.
But thirdly, we think the structural barriers are just weaker on the athletic path.
Like even though rich people can hire like coaches and trainers for their kids, they're a lot less likely to do so than a tutor, not just because the tutor's cheaper, but also because there's just more tutors out there.
So we think that, generally speaking, rich families are going to take less opportunities in terms of giving their kids a leg up on the athletic route, when the scholarship group works just fine.
So we think then that poor and minority students disproportionately benefit from the athletic route to college.
Also, college is just like a good thing because it breaks cyclical poverty.
Proud to oppose.