I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban smoking.
The burden we'll set for this round in terms of when a ban by a government is justified is really threefold: first when there is objective harm to the individual that isn't reconcilable by a perceived benefit.
At that point we think that it is fair to institute a ban.
Second, it is fair to institute a ban if there is an information asymmetry that makes consent hazy it best to justify.
This is often exerted through advertising forces are financial incentives, and at that point that there isn't meaningful consent a ban is justified.
And third, if there are third party harms.
That is if someone is harmed by the action that definitely did not consent into it, because they are not the ones partaking in that action, a ban is justified.
Note that all three of these obligations are are necessary but insufficient for op to beat back.
That is to say that if any one of these justifications proves true, if we meet any one of the standards, then that's it.
Right?
Like that's the round.
If you don't have to hit multiple justifications for instituting a ban.
If there's just one really compelling framework that you can apply to the ban's justification then that's sufficient.
So first on objectivity.
The health harms of smoking particularly cigarettes are really really well defined at this point.
There's a wide amount of scientific literature on this.
That they are cause lung cancer can cause mouth cancer can cause all sorts of cancer, and that also they have you know significant effects on your capacity to breathe.
On things like you know cognitive functions, like there is just a wide array of clear harms that are always going to, by a massive extent, outweigh whatever minor benefits come to smoking.
Like people might enjoy like the process of smoking, but like I don't think this is ever going to outweigh the incredible health harms that are intrinsic to this activity.
On the second standard, that is information asymmetries: we think that this is generally caused by advertisers that is like the tobacco industry itself.
There are large amounts of campaigning, particularly targeted to children, that institutionalize smoking as something that is demonstrative of you know sort of being cool, about being very mature and adult like, and as such from a young age it's indoctrinated to us that smoking is like an important activity that we should partake in.
This in turn basically traps people in before they have the capacity to make an informed decision, through literally addiction.
That the you know business model of the tobacco industry is to get people hooked before they realize that it's a bad idea.
At that point then because this is such an inherently abusive industry, we think a ban is a justified form of intervention on the way that the tobacco industry preys on our society.
On the third standard, third party harms: so secondhand smoke is probably the most clear cut example of this.
That especially in households when one member smokes a lot, there are demonstrated effects on you know children, or even other family members that live in that household, because of the secondhand smoke that they inhale which then just has essentially diluted versions of the already very well established effects that this has on the smoker themselves.
This is particularly problematic.
Because unlike the smoker, the family members or even people that just like live in areas with lots of smokers near them, don't consent into these harms.
They didn't make the decision to smoke, and it's very difficult to avoid these harms.
You know I mean you can put bans on smoking in public places, but even if someone's smoking in their own household, there are still people that suffer then at the making of that decision essentially.
At that point then a ban is wholly justified, because there is absolutely no standard of consent that you can apply as to why I am like justified in doing something for a small amount of personal pleasure, but also it gives my children cancer.
Like I just do not think that there is a standard for consent that justifies that decision.
Proud to propose.