I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should disband nato.
Our first independent point is that nato drives escalation in conflicts between the west and russia.
So at this point in history we've you know reached a point where nato's sole purpose is to curb russia essentially, to provide some sort of opposition to russia's aggressive expansions and russia's aggressive tactics internationally.
I think the problem here though is that nato as an institution simply forces russia's hand and forces them to be more adversarial.
The reason for this is that nato is structured so as to put basically a bunch of missiles on the russian border and that in turn forces russia to militarize in self defense so that they have you know second strike capability or even just defensive capability.
This however, is seen in turn as escalation itself and then is used to warrant more militarization from nato countries and thus the cycle continues in an arms race.
This is a problem then because not only does it actually result in just sort of like the general harms of over militarization through the the tensions that that generates, but it also warrants russia's adversariness, that they can more easily justify being so overly militarized and so defensive when they have this adversary to position themselves against.
I think it would be much more plausible for nato nations to make the case against their aggressive moves in ukraine and things like that if they themselves weren't also engaging in aggressive militaristic expansion.
So at that point then, nato actually undermines the case for opposition to russia and simply escalates the tensions to a point where they are becoming increasingly difficult to control.
Our second independent point is that nato is plagued by unequal spending.
It's fundamentally unfair.
So large countries like the united states for example, carry the bulk of the spending where as smaller countries in nato simply just don't do their part.
This is a problem then because that means that really all that these countries are contributing to nato is a name only and in essence providing dead weight to the organization.
We think that a unified front against russia's adversariness would be much more effective if individual nations simply did the work the the united states by itself would be much more effective in you know providing some sort of opposition to russia without the you know the assistance of these smaller nations.
But this brings me to my third and final point that essentially, you're dragging smaller nations into this confrontation.
I want to underline that fundamentally the quarrel with russia is a united states quarrel.
To an extent, there are some countries in western europe that can also claim membership to this fight you know the UK has its historical justifications for example, but the countries that are often used as the borders in the fight against or in this sort of like cold conflict with russia, are generally not nations that want that quarrel.
Poland, for example, has become a fundamental aspect of this oppositional front because it's in a geographic position to be you know basically a prime spot for for ballistic missiles to be positioned against russia.
That's a problem though because it forces poland into this confrontation when it doesn't want to be a part of it.
The united states essentially uses nato as a lever to bully smaller nations to becoming part of its conflict and that fundamentally is an issue.
There's an inherent unfairness to the united states using such small using small countries as essentially pawns in its larger game and at that point then, we think that nato itself is an inherently abusive organization and should be disbanded because the united states quarrel with russia is its own and you shouldn't be forcing smaller countries to become participants.
Proud to propose.