I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban gambling.
So our first independent point is that even if there are harms like addiction and losing money and wealth transfers intrinsic to gambling, we think that these are inherent to the individual and as such that means that we think that it is like totally reasonable for an individual to consent into those harms.
We think the people are allowed to consent into harm broadly because we think that people and not the state are in the best position to determine what their own preferences are.
Gambling while it certainly has its intrinsic harms also has benefits.
Lots of people think it's fun, some people think they're going to win money off of it, and we don't think that especially when it comes to skill based games because that actually is like a thing you do with skill we don't think that it's justified then for the state to create an objective guideline by which individuals can maximize their own pleasure.
Insofar as different people have different preferences, it makes the most sense for those different people to act upon their personal preferences in the best way possible.
And we think that if they are able to do so like if they are able to perform form consent which we think people understand that like the house always wins, like we don't think most people go into casinos with the understanding that they're going to become millionaires with a hundred percent certainty, and at that point then we think the people are well equipped to just make these decisions for themselves.
The second thing I'd like to bring up though is specifically the ways in which gambling can benefit society and has sort of like these positive externalities.
So specifically gov brings up a few ways in which society is harmed or like the laws undermined by the presence of casinos.
Their first point for example is talking about money laundering.
I think the flip-side to that coin is way more big picture ways in which gambling can help.
So organized state lotteries for example often fund a lot of money into the education system which is a progressive goal not just because education is like this important thing that we should just have so that children have access to like necessary information to be successful in life, but also because it disproportionately benefits poor people who can't afford to go to like private schools and things like that.
But we also think that when it's like more like business oriented like say a privately owned casino, there's also positive impact on the community.
Casinos in particular bring lots of jobs to areas that are historically under served so upstate new york for example you know wanted essentially to you know have industry because after the collapse of or after the commercial airline revolution which was followed by the collapse of the borscht belt and then the collapse of manufacturing in upstate new york, there really wasn't much that the community and the region as a whole could do to actually make money.
Employment unemployment was through the roof, people were leaving the area in droves, there was massive debt accruing in the municipal governments.
So what happened was that the state essentially decided that they were going to allow casinos to come in.
It's the sort of thing that definitely doesn't have spillover benefits in terms of you know tourism and stuff like that but it can bring employment to specific regions.
So we think that there are unique benefits that individual communities can make decisions on whether or not they want to bite into the risks in exchange for.
I think quite like the individuals casinos are a matter of consent for a community, that is that while there are certainly harms associated with casinos, on the bigger picture we think that you know communities can also benefit from this so it makes the most sense to allow individual communities to decide for themselves what they want and what they deem to be best for them.
At that point then it seems unreasonable to ban gambling because it blocks the opportunity that both publicly run and privately run gambling can provide to communities.
Proud to oppose.