I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should protect the right to universal access to the internet.
First an overview.
So the main contention of this speech will be that internet access is a facilitative right.
That is, that it in and of itself is key to accessing other fundamental rights that we hold dear.
So the reason why facilitative rights are important is because they are as important as the rights they secure.
If I cannot access my, say, right to life without say, healthcare, then healthcare is also a right because it is key to ensuring that the first thing can actually be achieved.
Given that we think the internet becomes a right by virtue of the fact that it is important to accessing other things that are more intuitive rights.
With that three independent points.
First, that internet access is facilitative to our right to free speech.
Free speech as a right matters for two reasons.
First, it matters because it's key to autonomy.
Humans are social beings so we have a desire to express things.
Restrictions then on what we can express and the ideas that we can put forward in conversation and in public platforms are necessarily restrictions on our autonomy.
I think autonomy can generally be agreed upon as the most fundamental right that in so far as we have a life and insofar as we have sentience, we want the capacity to express ourselves and act in the ways that we deem fit and deem as the best way of increasing our personal happiness.
So secondly we would say that free speech is important because it yields desire fulfillment.
I think a good example of this is that when you speak openly about something that you want, you put pressure on, say, governments to fulfill that desire, fulfill that want.
Generally speaking free speech allows you to put pressure on whatever actor you decide to go with for the sake of argument and put pressure on them to fulfill that desire or need of yours.
So the reason why the internet is facilitative to free speech rights is because it resolves asymmetries between powerful and non powerful individuals in terms of how much their speech actually achieves these things that we use free speech to attain.
Powerful people, in the past and even in the status quo, have greater free speech because their platforms that they operate under they have a closer ear to public officials, their like financial capacity makes them more you know important in the eyes of many other people.
We think that the internet though has the capacity to amplify people's voices and make them heard in a way that was not historically possible.
So it resolves that asymmetry.
The second right that we'd like to advance to you is information.
So we think that there's a right to information again for two reasons.
First, we think it matters because information decreases suffering.
So health knowledge, for example, is key to your ability to actually access your right to good health.
But secondly, it increases viewpoint diversity.
I think this is important because realistically when we are looking at any individual person, there is a certain understanding that that person to come can come to that is probably ideal for that individual.
That their reasoning and the experiences they have been brought up on, bring them to a logical conclusion.
And we think when they have more access to information, facts, they can reach that objective end point.
Like even if you don't think that there is a objective end point in what the truth is on a broader spectrum, I think it is intuitively true that there is an objective end point for the individual based on the inputs they received throughout their lives.
So the internet is facilitative to this right because it decreases the capacity of elite actors to restrict access to information.
We think that despots in the status quo restrict people's capacity to understand what's going on around them in the world, and the internet mitigates that by bringing the information directly to the people.
Proud to propose.