I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban whaling.
Our first independent point is cultural relativism.
So we think that certain cultures such as, for example, in japan, but also inuits in northern canada and into alaska, have a specific cultural tie to the practice of whaling.
For inuits, particularly, this is something that is historically not just key to the survival of this group of people and the society, but is also something that has particularly cultural significance to them, that is to say that it is ingrained deeply into their collective identity.
So, we think it's important to maintain people's rights then, to engage in practices that are important to their collective identities, for two reasons.
The first is that we don't think that there is an objective standard of the good.
So even if our like western sensibilities are, you know, put off by the idea of killing these beautiful creatures, we don't think that that conception of what the collective good is is objective in any way.
Generally, our ideas of right and wrong are shaped by the societies that we grow up in, so even really basic ideas like, you know, life is precious and, you know, murder is bad, things like that, they're formed by the society we grow up in.
There's nothing inherent about these norms.
At that point then, we think it's fundamentally unjust for one society to, you know, have the capacity to enforce its norms onto another society, just because it's more powerful.
If, you know, presumably the countries that would be pushing for this ban would be like western actors like the united states, for example, and we think it is fundamentally unjust that they be pushing their conception of what the common good is on these like smaller actors.
But secondly, we think that this cultural relativism is important because there is a specific rights claim intrinsic to it.
We think that individuals have the right to practice their culture on the basis that it's something that's key to their identity.
When we're talking about sort of the hierarchy of rights and what is most important to preserve for individuals, we think that preserving the right to one's own identity is particularly important, because a: people hold it in high regard and really at the end of the day, rights are just proxies for making people happy.
So if preserving someone's culture makes them really, really happy, then it's probably something we should do.
But secondly, it's key to their fundamental identity, that is, the things that make them them.
At that point then, we think the people, you know, have this proactive right to really hold on to their fundamental identity insofar as it is a key component of them and, by extension, their capacity to act as autonomous individuals.
Our second independent point regards sovereignty.
So we think that it is fundamentally unjust , not just from a cultural perspective, but also from a perspective of national sovereignty, for the many to enforce this upon the few.
So, let's look at japan for this example.
We think that japan has a proactive right to enforce whatever laws it feels on its own citizens.
This is because: one, the japan government the japanese government gets its mandate and, by extension, has its first responsibilities to the people of japan, not to say the will of like children in the united states who really like whales.
But secondly, we think it's important that they have this proactive right to sovereignty because we think, then, at that point, international regulation can become a tool of the powerful against the weak.
We think there's a poor precedent set here where, just because a couple western countries that aren't really affected by the whaling industry want there to be, you know, less whaling, that the smaller, less powerful countries just have to roll with the punches.
We also think that belong this beyond this proactive rights obligation, there's also an international relations harm, that is, that something like this, because it's so important to japan, could spark potential animosity between countries, which could have any slew of implications on the international stage, like trade deals being damaged, that sort of thing.
Proud to oppose.