I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban hate sites.
Three independent points.
First is that this is a violation of free speech.
Specifically we think that when especially when something is defined like as as just like a hate site that there is a higher risk of legitimate speech and legitimate exercise of free speech being violated.
The reason we care about free speech is twofold: one we care about it because it's the only way that in a democratic society we can proxy our preferences so if we care about a representative democracy reflecting the will of the people we want to be able to express our will so that the government can meet the demands of those individuals, but secondly we care about free speech because it's key to individual autonomy.
That is that we should maximize the ability of people to do as they choose on an individual basis and that we should only restrict autonomy when the action we are restricting restricts somebody else's autonomy.
So for example, we're fine with banning murder because dead people can't exercise their autonomy and so on and so forth.
Given those two standards then we think that obviously banning hate sites, even if they are vitriolic, even if they are deeply problematic, is still a clear cut violation and this isn't just an ethical issue we think this is also in many countries a legal issue of constitutionality that it would be logistically impossible to ban these types of sites without some sort of large overhaul of the constitution something that is not only politically unlikely to happen but is also pragmatically probably inadvisable insofar as it requires a restructuring of the basic structure of your government.
Our second independent point is that sunlight is the best disinfectant.
So what we mean by this is that when challenging or problematic ideas are put forward and society it's unhelpful to simply ban them.
I think a good example of this is it's the alt-right in the united states where a significant amount of vitriol was able to build up a line specifically because individuals believe that they were being persecuted.
We think that when you ban specific types of speech or even widely widely push it to the margins of society, this creates a notion one that you are legitimizing the narrative that these people are persecuted and two you make it unlikely that people who are new to these communities are going to have their views challenged.
It becomes exceptionally easy when you like are relegated to like some dark web messaging board to simply never have your friends are families find out that you were a member of these organizations and as such never be challenged on the legitimacy of your ideas.
We significantly prefer a world where in like overtly like racist sexist homophobic et cetera ideas are debated and essentially shot down in a public sphere, something like debates online or even in the media things like on TV.
We think even if this discourse is flawed it still significantly preferable to no discourse at all and no public challenging of these ideas.
Our third and final independent point though is that this type of ban is simply infeasible.
I think there is this weird propensity of legislators and policy makers to think that they can like really effectively regulate the internet.
The problem is that you can really only do that when the portion of the internet you're looking at is something that is run by a firm that cares about staying on the good side of the law.
So like amazon dot com follows federal laws and things like that because amazon is like an actual like company that like pays taxes and things and tries to stay on the government's good side.
We don't think that your average neo nazi like messaging board is probably going to care so much about this.
So we think that if you just like push them on to like some VPN that routes through north korea, they're going to continue to exist.
The problem then is that like things like say I don't know like drug sales or sale of other like illegal things or any other sort of illegal activity that can be traffic through a website is then going to be more likely to be associated with these groups' compounding effects things like that, so on.
Proud to oppose.