I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish the insanity plea.
Our first independent point is that guilt is predicated on intent.
So what gov tries to tell you in this you know parsing out of the guilt eating a guilty mind type thing is that the determining factor in whether or not somebody should go to prison is contingent upon whether or not they actually caused harm.
The problem that we have with that is two fold.
One is that gov's warrant for this is just insisting that there are other instances in which we do that.
But I don't think you know necessarily that that's a warrant like we would also say that like manslaughter should probably be reconsidered as a criminal offense but secondly we think that guilt should be the determining factor and specifically awareness of what went which we think that sorry we think that intent should be the determining factor in guilt and specifically awareness of what one did and why what one did was bad.
Because we believe that the you know the basic concept that underlines wrongdoing is an intent to create harm.
This is because the fundamental underpinnings of the criminal justice system, such as for example neutralization, don't make sense if the person didn't mean to do harm.
So one instance of this fact is that that person is unlikely to you know do harm again if it was accidental.
But additionally like in terms of this retribution framework, which I'll address in more detail lately, it doesn't seem to quite meet the standard because you're not really giving the victims justice if the actual perpetrator doesn't like know what they've done.
Obviously the preferences of the victims very from victim to victim but the base line is that it seems like you're not getting full retribution for this if the person can't seem to really come to terms with the fact that they did the bad thing.
At that point then it seems unlikely that criminalizing someone for something that they don't understand was wrong is necessarily a problematic action to take.
Our second independent point though is that we think the primary goal the prison system should be rehabilitation and we think that this policy actively undermines it.
So first we think that rehabilitation is important because unlike say , retribution which just makes these like bizarre judgment claims based on what an individual wants, rehabilitation actively attempts to make the world a better place.
That is you know rather than taking an eye for an eye and leaving everybody blind we say, let's just help this individual understand the social contract a little bit better so that they won't do this sort of thing again and that mitigates the likelihood that they'll create future suffering in a way that minimizes the harms inflicted upon them when they're in the criminal justice system.
Recognize that retribution is a kind of impossible thing to parse out because no two victims are ever going to have the same preferences on what happens to their killer er not their the the actual criminal and as a result it doesn't make sense to create an entire branch of your criminal justice system contingent upon fulfilling that arbitrary desire.
At that point then we think more concrete things, like establishing arm like a guilty conscience and ensuring that people won't recidivate, is significantly more reasonable to achieve.
So we think that rehabilitation is undermined by getting rid of the insanity plea because you create an environment in which people are less capable of rehabilitating.
Recognize that the insanity plea still results in somebody going to a mental hospital.
The counter factual here is, a, the conditions they're held under, which are worse and more repressive when they're actually convicted of something criminal, but secondly, we think that it's you know going to be problematic in so far as you know the resources given to them are less significant.
The prison system isn't designed to actually solve mental illness, mental hospitals are.
And at that point we think that they'll get better treatment and better rehabilitation in a world where they can you know not have to worry about a criminal record and a criminal punishment.
Proud to oppose.