I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should subsidize massive online courses.
Our first independent point is that these courses are often going to be of significantly lower quality than in-person courses.
The reason for this is fairly intuitive, that a significant component of the learning process is having some sort of teacher, professor, somebody who can physically be there with you, can physically communicate with you on an individual basis, and help you understand course material.
We think that the type of courses advocated by side government where people their classes rather are well within the hundreds of individuals you are unlikely to get that sort of assistance.
Even with large courses like that in standard university there's usually some sort of TA or somebody that you can talk to you for help with courses.
This doesn't exist though in large things like khan academy or course.
So we think that this type of education is inherently inferior to the type that we subsidize in the status quo.
Why then is it important to preserve better education?
We think that if government claims that there is an affirmative right to tertiary education hold true, then it's important to ensure that education is of good quality.
The reason for this is simple.
All the links they have and to why it's a right are depending on you actually learning things that facilitate you know like better understanding of government and just processes in the world around you and things like that.
If you don't actually understand those things, if you haven't learned the course material, then you're not actualizing any of those preferences or any of those necessities and as a result we think that the benefits are significantly lower on their side of the house.
But our second independent point is that the structure of these courses and the structure of the subsidies that will be created by side government results in a race to the bottom.
So a lot of the time particularly in education where significant portions of the income of the universities come from federal and state subsidies, there is often a competition to receive those subsidies, to do the things that the state wants you to do.
Usually those things are pretty much like good things right like providing housing or you know providing higher quality courses and states and federal government are more likely to give larger subsidies to universities to fulfill those purposes and fulfill those goals.
We think the problem is that we are now creating under this system an incentive for universities to lower the quality of their education on an individual basis in order to bring in as many people as possible.
This is fundamentally problematic.
We believe the best university system is one where the quality of education is still quite high but we maintain a functioning system that is equitable by virtue of subsidizing for those who cannot currently afford those high university costs.
But if we're subsidizing a system that's already relatively affordable for most people we then create a landscape where the lowest quality courses or the ones funded by the government universities pivot to exclusively offering these courses and federal dollars are taken away from the most educational and most beneficial forms of education.
Our third and final independent point is that this is a poor usage of federal dollars insofar as many of these courses are already free.
So specifically we hear this line out of government that's like oxford has like these courses that are online that are free.
I think that in and of itself demonstrates why you probably don't need the federal government to subsidize this.
Like if it's already free, there's no need to spend large amounts of the federal budget on subsidizing this thing.
Like some organizations like I don't I think like khan academy charges but like the reality is that if there are other higher quality institutions already providing this for free, we don't see the necessity in providing like subsidies for khan academy where you just go elsewhere and not be charged at all.
Proud to oppose.