I am proud to oppose the motion that we should ban alternative medicine.
Our first independent point regards consumer choice and specifically the fact that consumers have the right to make a decision about what types of medical treatment they will receive.
We think that there are perfectly legitimate reasons why an individual might want to seek the usage of alternative medicine.
So for example we think that there are potential cultural justifications for this that , you know, this is historic remedy used by you know people of particular heritages and as such people, you know, feel some sort of specific connection to the individual type of treatment.
Even if this is less effective than more modern medicine we still think the people put like a high premium on culture and as such that they should be allowed to access it.
We think that from a principle perspective that people, you know, should be allowed to make their own decisions because they are the best agents for determining what benefits them.
I think we often take this like god's eye view of just assuming that our individual values are the things that are best for everybody.
That, you know, for example when we're talking about illnesses that the top priority might be to get healthy.
While I'm sure that's true for like the vast majority of people there definitely are people that would, you know, prefer to just use the medicine that is like less effective but ties in more to their you know individual identity, their history, their culture, that sort of thing.
Our second independent point regards one's ability to consent into harm.
So we think that there is like a principled right to consent into harm.
This is because, you know, again, we care about autonomy.
The root cause basis for why we care about autonomy is essentially that we believe that, again, that the individual, you know, has the most access to information about what is specifically going to satisfy their needs and desires and that the state does not have access to that information all the time.
As such we believe that not only what we perceive as harm, but even things that might just be objectively bad for the individual, are things that a person can agree to do.
You know this is really simple, we think that one it's overly interventionist for the state to make these decisions for people, but secondly we think that there's sort of like a like an optical issue with this.
The people often lose their faith in authority structures and governments at large when they have the impression that that government is not acting within their best interests.
Thus we think if people, you know, fully consent into doing something even if it's probably bad for them, we should allow them to do it.
Gov specifically talks to you about information asymmetries.
I think there's two problems with this: one is that , you know, reasonably people know that alternative medicines don't work.
Like I think the average person, if you ask them, will just be like, yeah like crystals like are not a good way of like curing my cancer.
But realistically like the people that are going to do that are the type of people that you're not just going to be able to like convince on this, right?
And this leads me into my second my third independent point and the second reason why this doesn't work is that inevitably people will try to return to these methods through a black market.
So what do I mean by this?
Presumably the way that this model works for side government is just that like because you can't band crystals, right, like because these things usually can be used for other stuff, like certain herbs that are often touted as alternative medicine can also be used for cooking.
So it's like unreasonable to ban the objects themselves.
Presumably the ban just affects the way that they're marketed.
But I think the problem is that like the way most people access this information is through online forums and things like that that tell them that like x crystal or x herb has healing properties, or alternatively they access it through their culture.
All of this means that realistically a ban on the marketing probably isn't going to have a big impact on who wants to use these substances and, as such, because the band is just on the marketing and not the item itself, people will continue to use it.
The difference then is that there's no capacity to intervene as effectively because you aren't going to be engaging in like any sort of like counterfactual PR campaign, you're not going to have people like actively deriding the effects of alternative medicine on television or the radio and as such there'll be less access to essentially the opposition information.
Proud to oppose.