I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion, that we should abolish the double jeopardy defense.
So, the model for this is basically that we would have a very high bar for when somebody can be retried for a a defense they were already tried for.
We'll be consider this something like new evidence, that the judge determines has a meaningful chance of changing the outcome of the case.
We will generally be okay with individual judges sort of taking a sniff test, on whether or not something does constitute meaningful evidence that could change the case, or just generally evidence that the outcome of the case might be changed.
So, something like mishandling.
This brings me into my two independent points, first that there are serious situations, in which a trial can be affected in an unjust way, that later might be uncovered, and it would be justified for the legal system to allow for retrials in these cases.
And secondly, that getting rid of the double jeopardy defense would decrease of off the burden on the criminal justice system, and free up resources.
On the first point, that there are situations, in which retrials might be necessary.
One of these is new evidence, as mentioned earlier.
So, I think it's pretty intuitive to see how new evidence can change an outcome of a case, something like you know, problems found with DNA evidence, things found on like a crime scene, or like an admission found in a letter, like we can just stand here and think of all these different outcomes, right?
But like, obviously there are types of evidence that can meaningfully say look like this thing, that the jury was seeing at the time, is not actually representative of what occurred, and there is a need to have a new trial on the same crime, given the light of the new evidence.
But secondly, we would say that mishandling of the case generally, whether that be through something like corruption, or jury bias, raises the need for a retrial.
Now, in the status quo, if say a judge was bribed, or a juror was bribed, or something like these extreme examples, right?
You cannot have that retrial.
Because there's the double jeopardy defense, you cannot be retried for the same crime.
We would say that though, that these are really serious instances, in which we need a mechanism to restage these trials, because it is clear that the initial finding was illegitimate, and is not representative of what ought be given.
So, given that, there is a sort of justice oriented need to implement this system.
My second independent point is that getting rid of the double jeopardy defense would decrease burden on the criminal justice system.
So, what we mean by this is that because there is because criminals have less of a understanding on our side of the house, that they will be able to get away with things.
In the status quo, we think a lot of people try to plead innocent, on the basis that they think there is insufficient evidence as of the moment, and as a result they can probably like weasel their way out of a lot of charges, and things like that.
We think people would be a lot less inclined to take this strategy though, if they know that, you know, ten years down the line, or something some damning piece of evidence could come up, that would then jeopardize their case and put them in jail.
We think this would significantly increase the number of plea deals, and things like that, then, because people would have this long term view on our side of the house.
This in turn would decrease burden on courts.
We think, right now, there is a extreme shortages in resources, through things like public defenders and the elk, that put a lot of strain on the criminal justice system right now, and if we think we can get more people into plea deals, because we increase that legitimacy in the criminal justice system, and the notion that you aren't going to get away with something, just do an innocent plea, we can free up those resources, and allocate them to those who truly need them.
Proud to propose.