I am proud to oppose the motion that we should raise the retirement age.
Our first independent point is that, contrary to government's assertions, the working capacity of individuals has not been rising very much.
So, while government is certainly correct in stating that life expectancy has gone up recently, we don't think that that necessarily means the age at which people are capable of continuing to work necessarily raises.
I think what actually happens is that people just kinda like die for different reasons like, for example, cancer goes up, but what that means then is that people still develop a lot of physical ailments that are non-fatal later in in their like latish life.
So, like, in your mid-sixties, it is still true, just as it was like in the seventies or whatever, that you are just like physically weaker, often not capable of manual labor or like prolonged hours, and as such, lots of people are physically incapable of working.
I want to be clear here about this: there are lots of people who can continue working into old age.
The point of a retirement age, though, isn't to mandate that people stop working.
It's to account for the fact that a large percentage of people stop becoming capable of repetitive work and standard work at an older age and as such, creates a safety net for people who have a physical need to exit the work force.
We think at that point then, that because lots of people won't be able to continue their current careers at this point in their life, then we don't think that it is reasonable to say, " look, you just have to keep doing this for a while longer. "
It's to create an out, and we think this is still a reasonable point in one's life to create that out, because the physical ailments associated with old age are still present.
Our second independent point is that the policy would increase workforce competition.
So we think that there's a bit of a benefit of the retirement age in that it ensures that as the life expectancy of the workforce increases, you don't have people staying in the workforce longer.
So workforce turnover remains relatively consistent.
We think that there are definitely some small like individual benefits, like in terms of the efficiency of the economy, because you're injecting new blood into industries, but we think what's more important is that is if people stay in the workforce later and later into their lives, it means that there's just less jobs available, because people are holding onto their jobs for a longer period of time.
That, in turn, drives youth unemployment.
It becomes difficult for new people to enter the workforce and as such, you create a new social safety net issue, that is, unemployment costs go way up because people can't enter the workforce.
We think that these people are inherently harder to care for because at the end of the day, the medical costs and things like that associated with old age are fixed and are going to, you know, be incurred, no matter what.
But for younger people, we think that there's greater harms, because not being able to find employment early on creates like a both a stigma and a cycle of poverty that often lasts long into life.
It's harder for them to get gainful employment later along because they spent so many years unemployed.
We think, then, that this landscape is a an even bigger drain on the state coffers and as such, more important to avoid.
But third, we think that the system that is proposed by side government prolongs political wills for inherently faulty systems, like social security.
So we think that while there is broadly political appeal and obviously philosophical appeal to the notion of providing financial assistance to those that can't provide assistance for themselves, we think the systems in the status quo, like social security, are poorly equipped to do it, because the financial structure they're predicated on is unstable and unsustainable.
We think, then, that it's important to let these systems crash in the short term in order to develop political wills to build better infrastructure.
If, however, we continue expanding the retirement age indefinitely, we continue to preserve the political will that exists to support these faulty systems, and as such, we perpetuate inequity and insufficiency in our governing structure.
Proud to oppose.