I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban homeopathy.
So our first independent point regards consumer choice and specifically the right of people to make these decisions based on what they think benefits them.
I think there's like this, this misleading interpretation from side government regarding homeopathy that sees people who subscribe to this, you know, theory and believe in this method as people who are just like misinformed or lied to by some like corporate oligarch.
I think the real problem here is that homeopathy is like an actual component of a belief system, like that this is something people believe is often associated with like actual spiritual beliefs.
And even if it's not usually associated with organized religion it's still something that people close to their chest and is a fundamental component of their identity.
So we think then that if people are going to believe in homeopathy, that they're going to read these things online regardless of whether or not it's banned and believe that this is the way to become well, people should have the right to act upon that belief.
We think this is true because beliefs are , you know, a core component of our personal identity and at that point then when it's a core component of our personal identity it is something that is fundamentally important to the individual.
, you know, allowing people to you know act upon their identities and act upon their you know deepest held preferences is key to really any construction of autonomy.
So even if it's not particularly informed consent we still believe that if it's a deeply held notion that isn't going to be swayed just by banning the practice, that we should, you know, allow people to act upon that core component of their belief system.
Our second independent point is that we allow people to consent even into objective harm because we believe that banning such creates perceptions of a nanny state that, in the long run, actually undermine the state's capacity to, you know, regulate marketplaces well and gain public trust in an effective fashion.
What I mean by this is that , you know, say you are a avid homeopathic, you really really believe in this as a method of you know solving illness and that sort of thing.
The problem is that just because the state comes in and says: oh you can't do that, that doesn't mean you're suddenly gonna change your mind about homeopathy.
What it means is, because this is a belief that you hold so close to your chest and is still going to be proliferated in like online blogs and that sort of thing that you're just going to fervently defend your right to do this and you know essentially become disillusioned with the state.
We think that every time that the state engages in this type of regulation that it is essentially eroding public trust.
That it is alienating components of the population by decrying their core beliefs as illegitimate.
We think at that point then, that at the point where people are fully consenting into homeopathy and doing it of their own volition, that this is something that is completely reasonable to just allow them to do.
Our third and final independent point regards sort of like underground homeopathy.
So we think there isn't really a way to crackdown on this right, like you can change the branding of this sort of thing but at the end of the day like people can still sell these products like they can just sell it and say like oh this is like, you know, antimony or whatever, diluted x thousand times, and just not brand it on the website as a cure for blank.
And instead you just have like these blogs telling people like: oh buy blank it'll solve your problem.
So we think at that point then what the actual counter factual is, is a world where there's less discourse about the practice.
If it's not actively being sold in a way that specifically says, you know, oh hey like do this it'll cure your cancer or whatever, we think this is going to be less public opposition to this industry and as such there's going to be less discussion of it.
We think the main thing that's preventing people from subscribing to homeopathy isn't like less proliferation of the sales teams but rather the proliferation of people decrying homeopathy and if you take it out of that public scrutiny then you lose that capacity for public scrutiny and criticism.
Proud to oppose.