I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion, that we should ban lotteries.
The model here is pretty intuitive: we would just say that governments ought not, even at the state and local levels, have any sort of government sanctioned lottery.
Given that the scope of the info slide specifically regards state run lotteries, I think it is completely fair to say that we are fine with private lotteries, and things like casinos continuing onward, we would just say that government sponsored lotteries are a bad thing, and should be abolished.
So, three independent points of analysis under this: first, we would say that this facilitates gambling addictions, and that that's a bad thing.
Second, we would say that there is a disparate impact on poor individuals in the society.
And third, we would say it is a bad form of revenue raising for the government.
So, first argument, that it facilitates gambling addiction.
I think it's pretty intuitive as to why this is true, right?
Like, you have like not just a large pot to be won, so like people with the most significant incentive to gamble, in the most serious addictions, are going to be drawn to this pool, insofar as it is like the biggest shiniest pool, you have a multi billion, or multimillion dollar pool sometimes, that are extremely attractive, and because of just the scale of the lottery, you're always going to beat out whatever the private casino or whatever might promise, but we would say that, that is problematic right?
Addiction itself is a bad thing, we don't want to facilitate addiction, but we also think that when the state becomes involved in the gambling industry, and becomes a significant actor, that has a financial stake in ensuring that these people these likes quote unquote whales keep coming back to use the gambling services, that's when you like, erode at the actual state infrastructure, that is designed to help these people that are in need.
The state now has a financial incentive to overlook its moral obligation to assist those that are suffering from severe gambling addictions.
Likewise community members, that are profiting off of these lotteries, like shop owners, also have an incentive to turn a blind eye.
So, we think it is necessarily problematic, then, when you create a structure, that uniquely puts the state in a position to overlook this extreme form of suffering.
My second independent point, that poor people are disparately harmed by the lottery is also fairly intuitive.
Rich people don't need to gamble, because gambling is something that, generally speaking, people start doing because they believe that it will get them to riches.
These are generally people that are the most destitute within society, that have the least to lose, and as a result, are the most likely to engage in what is an inherently irrational behavior.
Lotteries are built on the assumption that they will bring in more money than they will put out, that is to say, that your probability of winning is significantly low enough, sufficiently low enough, that that would dilute out the expected winnings, weighed against your percentage probability of winning the lottery.
So it is an a rational behavior, that is generally fueled by a need to rise up in society, that is not felt by those that are already doing well.
So, we would say this is a bad policy, or this is a bad thing to have at the status quo, because it perpetuates the inequality that is systemic to lotteries.
My third independent point is that this is a bad way to raise revenue.
So, we would say that, generally, the argument that side government is going to make is something to the effect of like: but we increased state coffers, we put this money towards like education, or welfare, or whatever thing that the government does that you enjoy.
The problem with this is that presumably, the services that you think we really need, that are historically underfunded, are the ones that go to the poor.
Things like funding for homeless programs, or funding for job training, or welfare, or whatever, right?
But the problem is that, at the point where you're taking the money from the people that are worse off in society, this reasoning doesn't make sense.
It's a regressive tax, because you're just taking from the poor, and then giving some of that money back to the poor people, that needed it the first place.
We would say that this is inherently irrational way of raising the money, that is necessary to provide these important social services.
Proud to propose.