I am proud to oppose the motion that we should protect whistleblowers.
Three independent points.
First national security.
So we think it is probably fair for government to talk about how when we have whistleblowers we create accountability for institutions that are unlikely to come forward themselves or make public of their practices.
I think the problem here though is that usually these institutions are unwilling to do so because the matters that they are you know conducting and the matters that they are involved in are ones that are of highly sensitive information.
So looking at the NSA leak that government uses as an example it is definitely true that edward snowden's leak revealed things that were arguably rights violative in terms of practices by the government.
The flip side of this however is that his leak incidentally revealed the names of several CIA operatives, revealed their practices, revealed who they were wiretapping, what their strategic operations were in the wiretapping realm, and specifically who was suspected of specific crimes in order that warranted wiretapping.
This is all deeply problematic and we think that that countervailing impact here that has to be weighed against these sort of like abstract right to privacy arguments is that national security.
The ability of the government to a protect its people, the ability of people who work for the government to protect themselves, and for the ability of the state security apparatus to continue functioning in a clandestine way that is important to its continued operationalization.
Given that we think that these abstract rights arguments are extremely limited in their scope and utility.
Our second independent point though is that this is unlikely to meaningfully resolve the abuses that are present within the institution.
The reason for this is that whistleblowing it like always like literally a hundred percent of the time results in a massive media circus where the idea of being like opposed to an individual policy pursued by institution is always drowned out by the outcry over whether or not the person should have come forward in the first place.
So you didn't really see like a lot of introspection by like republican legislators for example after the snowden leak on the policy itself because everyone is so preoccupied with like the traitorous nature of the way in which the information was leaked.
We think this is an inherently problematic way to seek changes in policy.
We would significantly prefer internal path so that we recognize that these are not always viable.
We would still say that there is a significant moral hazard in government's policy and that it reduces the incentive to resort to internal paths to resolution things like going to your boss or going to your boss's boss or your boss's boss's boss are always going to be a lot more successful even if they only work on the margins than creating a media circus that doesn't actually address the issue at hand.
This brings me to the third and final issue which is that reform is also impeded by the personality of the leaker.
So we think that two good case studies in this at the comparison between chelsea manning and edward snowden.
Edward snowden kept a like certain type of hold over the media for a long time because he represented a personality type that was popular at the time, this sort of like anonymous hacker like shady guy that was like mysterious and what not.
That personality drove him to receive lots of positive media coverage because he was seen in the archetype of that sort of like v for vendetta type anti-establishment hero.
Chelsea manning on the other hand was none of these things.
She's not very personable, wasn't very outgoing, she also worked directly for the military which solidified the narrative against her, and then after all of this, she was also transgender at a time when the country was significantly less accepting of it and as a result this also impeded her popularity.
As a result, edward snowden's policy and the things that he revealed were investigated quite closely and looked at and reformed.
Chelsea manning most people don't even remember what she leaked as it happens it was war abuses in afghanistan that never receive coverage anymore.
We think then that functionally these whistleblowers are unlikely to lead to meaningful reform.
Proud to oppose.