I am proud to oppose the motion that we should legalize sex selection.
Our first independent point is that this policy will yield population imbalances.
Government attempts to spike this out by claiming that sex-selective abortion exists in the status quo and as such, the impact on population imbalances will be minimal.
I think the problem with this reasoning though is that there are barriers to sex-selective abortion in the status quo that don't exist for sex selection.
For one thing, in many particularly conservative countries, sex-selective abortion is legal.
But secondly, sex-selective abortion is an expensive procedure, as abortions, in general, are.
And as such, we think that natural barrier to the procedure means that it doesn't happen as frequently as it would if you could actually just change the gender in vitro.
This is a problem, then, because we think that this is going to generate significant third-party harms that link directly into the framework that government gave you for when bans are justified.
We think, specifically, three thirty party three third-party harms are articulated.
First, there is a change in workforce composition.
So, in most of the countries where this is an issue, it's going to overwhelmingly be parents that prefer to have male children, because they see male children as like the breadwinners that can hopefully support the financial stability of the family.
The problem is that the workforce, though, is a marketplace with competition, so if every family is doing this, it's unlikely that individual families win.
Rather, you just increase the number of men competing for a limited number of manufacturing jobs and things like that, and as such, you don't really have a significant impact on the amount of money being brought back to families.
Rather, you just have an increase in the number of unemployed men that then become a drain on their families.
We think then that this is problematic not just for the families themselves, but for society at large, because it creates a greater burden on social safety net programs like unemployment benefits and welfare.
Second, we think that there's a population decrease in the long term, which then generates issues with also the social safety net.
The reason we think there's a population decrease is because if there's an imbalance of genders, then you just have less family units being created.
As such, the birth rate goes down and then what happens is you have a top-heavy population, that is, there are more old people than there are young people because not as many people are being born now.
That, in turn, means that there are less people paying in taxes to support the benefits that are given to retired elderly people in the long term, and as such, you have an imbalanced social safety net.
And our third harm here is terrorism.
We think that terrorism correlates highly with populations that have large amounts of unemployed and single men, both of which are, you know, realities that we've explained to you why they occur in this landscape, and as such, we think there are greater incidents of like, even if it's not just like explicit terrorism, just like radical political behavior in general, which generates not just social instability, but also literal harms in terms of the lives taken.
Our second independent point is that this policy will yield the commodification of women.
So we think that this policy quite literally yields a shortage of women being born.
That is, if families make the active decision to have more male children, because they think that they're more desirable, then less women will be born.
I think this creates two problems.
First, it reifies existing gender norms that create all the structural harms that make women so undesirable to poorer families in the first place.
Women are seen as undesirable because they're incapable of competing in workforces that have sexist norms ingrained into them.
But if you literally reduce the number of women in society, you're never going to beat back the sexist norms because you won't have enough interested parties to actually make those voices worth consideration to the political structure.
But secondly, we think there's commodification because, specifically with regards to like dating culture and things like that, women will be seen as in shortage and as such, we think that more sexist practices are likely to materialize as people essentially compete for the smaller number of women.
This, in turn, ensures further abuse and subjugation that will widen gender inequities in parts of the world that are already experiencing it to a large extent.
Proud to oppose.