I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban hydraulic fracturing.
I want to start with an overview about the regulatory landscape that is taking place in the status quo, because it's important to recognize the trajectory we're currently on is recognizing a lot of the harms that are put forward by side government that the impacts on drinking water, for example, are profound and are legitimate, which is exactly why a lot of governments now are taking steps to ensure that hydrofracking doesn't occur near water basins or rivers or other sources of water that might affect human life.
As such, we think that a lot of government's case is, on face, invalid, because of the trajectory of the status quo, that is, a trajectory towards better regulation and ensuring that these practices are carried out safely.
That said, then, three independent points.
Our first is that energy costs go up in a world without hydraulic fracturing.
Hydraulic fracturing is specifically being pursued on the basis that it is cheaper than most traditional extraction methods.
Something like crude oil, for example, not only incurs shipping costs because there isn't a lot to, you know, get in most of the countries that are looking at hydraulic fracturing, but there's also just more costs associated with the extraction.
There's refining to be done you know, there's actual like much more drilling involved in the process, it takes a longer amount of time.
This is something that is necessarily more complicated, more complex, and as such, drives up energy costs.
And we think, then, that it's important to ensure energy costs are cheap, specifically because high energy costs put a disproportionate burden on the poor.
Usually, there are ways of buying out of high energy costs, things like equipping your home with solar panels or some other form of like wind technology or something, but the problem is that because of the large amounts of upfront costs, even if these generate long-term savings, these options aren't accessible to poorer individuals.
And as such, there is then a barrier to actually accessing these.
Higher energy costs, then, from a production standpoint and from a public utility standpoint, tend to fall on those who aren't incapable of buying out of the system.
We think then that because the policy disproportionately harms poorer people, this isn't something we should ban.
Our second independent point is that the alternatives to natural gas and hydraulic fracturing are significantly worse in terms of their environmental impacts.
One reason for this is, as I already explained, the broad trajectory towards regulation of this industry that mitigates the harms laid out by government.
But secondly, we think that, largely speaking, firms that currently invest in like hydrofracking aren't going to turn to things like clean renewable energy.
The reason for this is twofold: one, that the institutional understandings of the regulatory and commercial landscape that dominate hydrofracking are more similar to things like crude oil and unconventional oil through things like tar sands, and as such they're more likely to diversify to those types of technologies and portfolios rather than something like wind or solar.
But secondly, usually a turn to natural gas is financially motivated rather than environmentally motivated and as such, a firm will probably turn to something cheap, like coal or crude oil, even if it's less cheap that natural gas on the basis that they still want to drive down costs.
As such, we think that the emissions and things like that that contribute to global warming, that are more significant to crude oil, coal, and other similar methods, are significantly more damaging to the individual, even if they're not as visible, as say, oil in your tap water, because they have long-term harms that pose an existential threat to humanity, things like rising sea level, changing weather patterns, that sort of stuff.
Our third independent point is that you decrease imports with domestic production of oil and that ensures more stability for the oil market, basically because you're not importing it from countries with unstable governments, like saudi arabia, and as such, with more market stability comes cheaper oil, and this links back into all the impacts that I mentioned in my first independent point.
Proud to oppose.