I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should close guantanamo bay.
Three independent points: first is human rights.
So, the way that inmates are treated at guantanamo bay is pretty gruesome, to say the least.
It's an area where there's like a significant amount of torture within the jail.
There's , you know, deprivation of basic human rights, like food and water.
There're, you know, large amounts of reports of sexual assault within the prison.
This is not a this is not a place that is operates within the UN convention on human rights, to say the least.
I think that the human rights afforded to prisoners are pretty important regardless of what they have done, for one, they have allegedly done these things.
So I think this treatment is definitely not warranted under the assumptions of innocent until proven guilty.
But secondly, even if they have committed crimes, there are still certain rights that we afford to inmates, even from foreign countries, on the basis that regardless of the crimes they've committed, they are still humans.
They still experience suffering.
These are still people who do not needlessly need to be inflicted harm upon, especially if they are being kept in a high security prison where there is little likelihood of them escaping and committing more harm down the road.
The second independent point is propaganda.
So, I think that the way that gitmo is run, that is, like such an egregious den of human rights violations, paints a very vivid picture for people , specifically in the middle east, where a lot of the detainees are from, that radical groups like, say, al qaeda or , you know, isis, et cetera, are able to paint the west as very inhumane and hostile towards them specifically by using gitmo as an example, by saying this is how I how they treat us, not even the ones that are like convicted of crimes, just the ones that are accused, and this makes for effective propaganda.
To be clear, this isn't the only thing the US government does that makes for good propaganda, but it is certainly one of many elements that factors into a web or a narrative of ways in which , you know, people in the middle east are shown how the US government operates and are then, you know, shown to despise it based on the human rights violations committed by the US government.
In the long term then, I think this really infringes upon our capacity to, you know, meaningfully undermine the support for groups, like al qaeda and isis, because their support is so predicated upon the human rights abuses that we are currently committing.
Our third independent point is basically relations with cuba.
So, the location of gitmo is precarious, to say the least.
It's on a small bit of annexed land, on cuba, that we've held, I believe, since the sixties or so.
This is a problem for a couple reasons.
The first is the cost of operating a prison so far away, and a location that's, you know, not very happy with the fact that we're operating there.
Going to cuba is expensive, shipping supplies to cuba is expensive, ensuring that the military presence around the prison is strong enough, not just to keep them inmates in, but also to keep the cuban government from taking back their land is also expensive.
There are a lot of reasons why this is a poor use of money.
But secondly, it actually harms our relationship with cuba at a time where we're trying to remedy this.
, you know, under the obama administration, certainly, there were a lot of steps taken to ensure that we could have closer relations with cuba.
, generally speaking, possitive relations with any country is a good thing because it mitigates the likelihood of, you know, some sort of outbreak of violence or even a trade war.
But with cuba specifically, we wanted to mollify this relationship because of their proximity to us, that it's bad to have enemies in your neighbor in your backyard.
However, guantanamo bay is really an aggravating point between the two countries because it represents an annexation by the united states, that this is really cuban land that we have just sort of taken and decided to run a high security military prison on.
This, of course, is problematic for our relationship so benefit certainly taking out the prison would include better relations with cuba.
Proud to propose.