I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish the electoral college.
In terms of the model, we would just transition over to a popular vote.
So just whoever gets the most votes across the country wins.
And obviously because of the electoral college only applies to presidential elections we would also only be applying this popular vote system to the presidential election.
Three independent points: first is that the electoral college can often result in the wrong result, essentially.
That we think that principally the person who gets the most votes across the country should become the president.
That person clearly enjoys the most support of the people, and our underlying principle in a democracy is there representative should be the ones that act on behalf of as many people as possible within that system.
So, it's bad then when a person that enjoys less support nationwide becomes the president.
The justification that's often offered for why the system endorsed by the electoral college happens and why were okay with someone with less votes becoming president, is geographic essentially.
That you know certain states are underrepresented because they have less people and then the electoral college basically allows the smaller states to get some sort of representation.
The problem though is that principally I just don't think that those states should have the same level of you know representation as states that are significantly larger.
The reason for this is essentially created you know by the fact that just majority vote matters.
That there's nothing about a a rural person that makes them any more worthy than you know a person living in a very urban state.
And at that point I don't think that there's a reasonable justification for allowing that outsized voice.
One prominent example is that in wyoming an individual just has about three times the influence on the presidential elections outcome than someone in california.
Because california, by virtue of how many people it has, just has less you know representation in the electoral college weighted out across its population.
This is, you know, pretty problematic the reason for why this happens is because you know the senate factors into the count of how many votes you get in the electoral college, so smaller states that still of two senators get a lot of votes.
All in all then I think there's a lot of problems in terms of representation that are created by the electoral college and the geographic justification doesn't really merit that disparity.
Second independent point is fraud, essentially.
That it is harder to commit on a national level, when you basically you have to alter the result by such a wider factor.
In the electoral college, the race can really come down to just like a small state, like a swing state basically, like ohio for example.
So what you really have to do to commit meaningful fraud in that case is alter result by a few thousand people in a swing state that decides the election.
On a national level however the margin is quite rarely that thin and the effort it would take take you know commit fraud is a significantly larger.
So we think it's easier to protect against you know problems like this in an electoral college system.
The last thing I want to talk about is wasted votes.
And or specifically votes that aren't recognized properly.
And I think there's a lot of ways in which this happens: the first is just that you have people in heavily red or blue states that are in the opposition voice, whose voices are really hurt by virtue of the electoral college.
So democrats in texas, for example, don't really have any reason to cast a ballot.
The same goes for republicans in say new york.
This is, that this is a problem it's not just unfair that these people's voices aren't really listened to, but it also depresses turnout, which has its own benefits like civic engagement.
But secondly, and I think even more significantly, is the strength that swing states have.
States that are relatively purple and have a balance of republicans and democrats are viewed in much higher regard by people campaigning due to their likelihood to swing the election, and people will spend a lot more time engaging with those voters.
That's a problem because it means that people in reliably red or blue states simply aren't listened to in the same way that people in those swing states are, and as such their needs often go by the wayside when it comes to policy making.
Proud to propose.