I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should subsidize electric cars.
Our first independent point is simply that subsidies, in an abstract sense, are bad for the economy.
So, two reasons why this is true.
The first is that they encourage rent-seeking behavior.
We think that when a company's model for you know gaining revenue necessary to continue its operations is predicated on getting more subsidy money from the government, rather than simply selling more products to the market, that creates a fundamental imbalance in the incentive structure at the corporation.
This is not just because we think that you know products should generally for a principal perspective track what people actually want, but we also think that it generally means that companies are instead going to conform to the wishes of government bureaucrats, rather than you know the individual consumers that drive demand for specific types of products.
We think that often government bureaucrats are particularly poorly informed about a lot of issues regarding the of a specific industry, and especially when it's one that's dealing with like experimental new technology, like electric vehicles, we think that you know bureaucracies are particularly poorly equipped to deal with deciding which companies are doing a good job.
The end result of all this then is that poor business practices are propped up, while more genuinely competitive and you know good companies can be left in the dust, because they're not able to compete with the stream of government money that their competitors are receiving.
But secondly, we think that subsidies are bad because it mitigates specialization between countries.
So government spends a lot of time talking to you about how it's specifically good for domestic industry when you create these subsidies.
I think there's really two problems with this.
One is from a global perspective, that we think it's better when companies like say, germany, can specialize in the development of electric cars, because that creates better electric cars.
That is, they can dedicate a higher percentage of their resources towards this industry, and as such because of like economies of scale, just do a better job of funding a good robust development of this particular product.
But secondly, we think even at the most domestic level it's a problem, because specialization, when encouraged, allows for better products to be created.
So rather than a bunch of different firms in different parts of the world creating these things on their own, and a such all putting out basically comparable and you know decent products, we think that if there is a large concentration in one geographic region, that that creates a marketplace that produces significantly superior products, that then benefits everybody around the world by just creating a better product for people to be able to buy.
Our second independent point is that this policy would decrease jobs.
So we think that obviously the oil industry is a pretty large employer in lots of places around the world, not just domestically but also abroad, like particularly in the middle east.
And the problem is that and we also think that you know biofuels like like corn infused ethanol that goes into making biofuels is also a big employment generator in the farming industry.
Electric cars, of course, don't use these forms of fuel, rather they use electricity, and we think this hurts the job market then by essentially getting rid of these jobs.
When demand for oil and demand for ethanol is lower, then the firms that produce these products are less capable of employing lots of people, and as such, jobs are lost.
We think then that this is problematic because job loss has a sort of downward spiraling effect on the economy, because you need lots of people to be employed and getting steady access to capital in order to buy goods, in order to ensure that other firms can survive and continue employing their people, and so on and so forth.
So we think that even small losses in job can have exponentially larger effects on the broader economy.
Proud to oppose.