I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban fast foods.
Three independent points.
First is that fast food is terribly unhealthy.
So I think this is fairly intuitive.
That we all understand why mcdonald's is bad.
These foods are generally rich in sodium, they have large amounts of trans fat, whatever the bad fat is, they're high in cholesterol, and they are low in nutrients.
They don't have much in the way of vitamins or other things that are actually healthy and important parts of a balanced diet.
So why then do we think that the government is justified in intervening in these problematic health decisions?
Two reasons.
First is that there's an information asymmetry intrinsic to these types of fast food.
That even if people understand to an extent that fast food is bad for you, they often do not understand how incredibly bad it is for you.
That a lot of people see it as like, oh well if I have like mcdonald's every night for dinner, that's like having like I don't know like red meat instead of white meat.
I think there are obviously lots of people, including like people like us who are disproportionately well educated, that really understand how bad this is for you, but I think generally speaking the people who consume it most are often the victims of ad campaigns that are designed to portray these types of food as equally healthy to things that are just mildly unhealthy.
But secondly, we think that there is going to be more access to healthy foods if you ban mcdonald's.
So a big part of the reason why poor families can't afford to eat healthy is because there is a premium on comparatively healthier foods.
That buying like raw fruits and vegetables and things like that is somewhat expensive by virtue of the fact that they're healthiness is a selling point.
But if you ban the comparatively unhealthy thing, that makes that a premium, then you decrease the market value of the healthy produce.
You bring down the price and you make it more affordable to families.
I think a good example of this is the fact that produce costs have gone up dramatically in the last few decades, mostly as a product of the widespread availability of cheap fast food.
If you get rid of the other force in the market that puts a premium on the healthy food, the prices go down and as a result become more affordable to poor individuals.
Our second independent point is the cultural harm that comes from fast food.
So we think that family meals where you sit down together and you spend time with your family are something that's really important.
That it strengthens the nuclear family structure when you are having this like daily interaction with your family members that forces that type of interaction and that type of structure.
And we think that the nuclear family is something that's very important, especially for children.
We think that it is something that provide structure to their lives and creates a stronger connection to individuals who have their best interests at mind.
And we think that generally speaking, it allows for support structures even for adults.
That's important to have that type of repetitive and reliable social interaction with people that you know are unconditionally attached to you.
We think that it is problematic then when that structure is weakened.
Our third independent point is wealth redistribution.
So franchises like fast food restaurants accumulate lots of money and then redirect that capital to people like say, ray kroc.
The comparative, small restaurants, generally accrue that capital to the middle class because those are the people that own these types of restaurants often.
So in this way, these small fast food joints drive inequity by funneling money from the lower classes and pushing it up to the uber rich.
Op is going to tell you that there's a trade-off here.
That the food will be pricier if it's smaller restaurants because of economies of scales and things like that.
I think we're comfortable though with that trade off insofar as we maintain capital in the lower classes, and stop the massive inequity that is being driven by institutions like the fast food industry.
Obviously this problem is bigger than the fast food industry, but we think this is still like a drop in the bucket that is moving in the right direction.
Proud to propose.