I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish needle exchange programs.
Three independent points.
First, needle exchanges increase drug abuse.
This is true for two reasons.
The first being that it decreases the barriers to which are intrinsic in using drugs.
So I think there's a lot of natural disincentives to using drugs, like addiction is bad, there's a lot of money that you blow doing this, it's harms side if like there are health side effects that are pretty bad, but I think generally speaking there is some degree to which people are like, okay but I really like being high and that's worth the trade off to me.
So I think an effective way then to decrease the number of people that are using drugs is to increase the difficulty of engaging it in the first place.
That is this is just a cost benefit analysis that individuals are making and that we can generally speaking say no, like if we make it harder less people will do it.
So needle exchanges then increases simplicity because they decrease the harms intrinsic to reusing needles.
If you make it extremely easy to secure syringes I think that's going to increase the number of people that are willing to abuse drugs in the first place.
But secondly, we think that needle exchange programs will increase drug use because it normalizes it.
When the government engages in a program that says, here we're going to give you the tools that are necessary for engaging in drug abuse, we think that it constitutes a essentially a stamp of approval on the activity itself.
This is problematic because when you normalize this, when the government gives its stamp of approval, you get rid of the most powerful disincentive there is to drug abuse, that is the notion that it is socially unacceptable.
I think generally speaking this is why most people don't engage in drugs in the first place, even if they hear that it's an enjoyable experience.
And if we were to beat back this normalization that it is a bad thing, and instead normalize the notion that it is an acceptable thing to do, that the government will facilitate your attempts to complete, that is a problem and that will increase the number of people doing it.
Our second independent point, that it increase sharps litter.
So when you put more needles into circulation you inevitably wind up with more litter.
This is a problem in cities across the country that have heroin epidemics, that you have people just sort of like leaving sharps on the ground as that use them.
And this is a problem because as the motion slide indicates, there is lots of risk intrinsic to the idea that you are going to have like spread of diseases and things like that.
And when these needles that are just left lying on the ground have traces of HIV and the like on them, someone walking along that either steps on the needle or attempts to pick it up not knowing how to do so properly, risks contracting it.
These are innocent people, people who are in no way associated with the drug with the drug like industry or anything like that.
So we think that it's problematic that when they wind up dealing with harms because we decided we were going to pursue a harm reduction strategy.
Our third independent point is that it's a poor use of government resources.
So note that you are always going to have to spend some amount of money on these types of programs, that you have to buy the needles, you have to pay a staff, you have to like rent the building.
Like needle exchange programs aren't a cheap thing and we think that there's just significantly better things that you can do that don't have these harmful side effects.
Like insofar as public health commission's tend to have finite budgets that they can only spend on one thing or another, we prefer systems that provide like mental health counseling or you know provide like anti-advocacy campaigns about like explaining why drugs are bad.
Things like that.
Like going into schools and educating children on the harms that are to come.
We think that you can get a lot of the same effects that are being professed by what I'd side opposition will tell you, without having to deal with the harmful side effects of having a needle exchange program.
Proud to propose.