I'm proud to support the motion that we should ban hate sites.
Three independent points: the first of which is that from a principled perspective it is justified to ban hate speech in any form.
So we think a lot of what opposition is going to tell you is going to revolve around the notion that these sites constitute a form of speech, and as such we must protect free speech because of the principled justifications for why we respect that in the first place.
So I'll get into, later, the reasons why we don't think this necessarily extends to the internet, but from a broader more principled perspective we think it's important to squash hate speech no matter what context that arises in.
The reason for this is that even if we fundamentally believe that people should have a right to free speech, we think that hate speech necessarily infringes upon the free speech of those who are the victims of it.
So when you are in a sort of like public discourse type setting, like say politics or the internet, you're often going to see that there will be people attempting to basically tamp down the views of individuals.
And especially for historically oppressed minorities and other groups that are likely to be the victims of hate speech, we think this is an especially high risk that needs to be looked out for.
We think that if you allow the internet to become sort of this like volatile cesspool that it often is where say LGBT people or people of color don't feel comfortable expressing their views and like identities openly, out of risk of you know essentially being targeted by these forms of hate speech, we think that necessarily then runs over their right to be able to speak freely.
At the point then where these to run counter to one another, we think it just makes more sense to favor the rights of the victims over the rights of people who have actively created harm in the world.
Our second independent point is that even if you do think that hate speech is free speech and should be protected, we don't think that free speech rights extend to internet discourse.
The reason for this is that the internet has the capacity to create significantly more harm from statements that would be otherwise innocuous as said just like face to face.
The reason for this is the broader audience.
So when we consider limits on free speech, usually the standard we use is whether or not it creates harm.
So the fire in a crowded theater sort of standard.
That's a lot more likely to happen on the internet when you have a broader audience that is more likely to be persuaded by your statements because you're getting that greater access.
We don't think however that there is a necessary trade-off in terms of the person's ability to express these viewpoints.
We think that person's right to say as they want still exists if you can't do so on the internet.
The internet is simply one forum and as long as we allow access to other reasonable forums, like say the news, or just interpersonal discourse, and like talking to your friends and things like that, we don't think that necessarily this is a necessarily large infringement on those rights, weighed against the larger magnitude of harm created by this particular forum.
Our third and final independent point is the forms of discourse that occur when we're talking about this speech.
So I think the other main argument that op is going to bring up is going to be something to the effect of: " look, sunlight is the best disinfectant.
If we allow people to talk about this that will be able to sort of shut down their ideas and explain to people what's wrong with them. "
I think the problem with that argument is that discourse doesn't really work like that on the internet.
Like if you look at any comment thread or you know or readit chain or whatever, like looking at any of the sort of conversations that happen on the internet, it's not a forum that's very facilitative to people having conversations.
This is partly because of the anonymity of the internet but it's also partly because this isn't something that's happening on a face to face basis.
You don't have to listen to the other person.
We think if we shut down this type of discourse from occurring on the internet it will instead gravitate to more you know facilitative forums.
Places where actual conversations have to happen like say on the news, or just enough to face to face conversation.
We think then, if sunlight is the best disinfectant it's important to force these conversations to happen in a place where there is sun light.
Proud to propose.