I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban free newspapers.
Our first independent point is that free newspapers are uniquely accessible because they're free.
And as such we think that there is requisite demand for these free newspapers.
There are a lot of people, particularly in urban centers, that cannot afford to pay for newspaper subscriptions.
You know there are lots of people that don't have internet access and as such can't read papers online.
We think then that this is problematic.
Insofar as it insurers that it there are lots of people that don't have access to the basic information that is provided by newspapers.
Being able to read the news is really fundamental to one's ability to understand what's happening in the world around them and we do think that this type of information is an actual right.
The reason for this is that your ability to act in accordance with one's your own preferences and you know express things like your right to free speech and and you know your right to vote, that sort of thing, is all predicated on your understanding of the world around you.
And if you don't have access to the information that facilitates that right to information then you know that is something that is a facilitative right that you are losing out on.
We think that free newspapers, even if they're not quite the new york times, are important to ensuring that people who can't afford newspaper subscriptions still have some ability to access information about the world around them.
We do think that there are some decent papers out there that are free.
Metro comes to mind for example, like there's like metro stands all over boston near public transit and what not.
And we think that people can read these free newspapers and get some degree of information about what's happening in the world around them.
Our second independent point regards property rights.
Specifically the property rights of the people who make newspapers.
We think the individual printers have the right to charge whatever they see fit for their papers and if they decide that they want to run a model that you know doesn't charge a subscription fee, but rather makes revenue through advertising, we think that's well within their rights.
Gov hasn't articulated a clear harm to why advertising like undermines the integrity of the newspaper.
Pretty much all newspapers have advertisements, the free newspapers just have more of them.
So at that point then, we think if you can just couple that large amount of advertising with some decent journalism, there isn't much that really differentiates these from a good the other papers.
Like there are some really decent free newspapers and we think at that point then, this is good journalism that should be preserved.
Both from the perspective of the ability of people to access information and their right to you know good journalism, but also from the right of the printers to charge as they see fit.
We don't think that there is a fundamental harm to the individual consumer generated by that model, and as such we think it's you know something that the printer should be permitted to do.
Our final independent point is that a lot of the problems articulated by side government can be solved for with different policies and as such this particular policy seems unnecessary.
Like I'm going to concede that this is a low impact round.
Right?
Like at the point where gov's linchpin seems to be like essentially that their mediocre papers and that you know they cause a lot of litter, like that doesn't seem like this is a big issue.
At that point then you know you can just like do a better job of cleaning the subways.
In terms of bad journalism, like this is something that self selects.
Like, yeah tabloids exist in the free newspaper world, they also exist in like the paid newspaper world, so this seems like a wash.
Like the reality is just that even if there are issues with free newspapers and harms created by them, they're not only meager but you can just solve them in ways that don't involve a ban.
And at that point then it seems unnecessary to restrict the breadth of the journalism market in order to ensure these like small public impact needs.
Proud to oppose.