I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban IQ tests.
Three independent points, the first of which is that our society has a need to create some sort of sorting mechanism that determines you know basically who is stronger when it comes to specific skill sets like say critical thinking or spatial reasoning.
We think that even if something like as all inclusive as like an IQ test isn't necessarily going to provide a perfect portrait of the individual, there are specific workplace centric needs to have IQ tests.
So in the military for example, there are both personality and intelligence tests that are designed to basically figure out how well can we trust this person with large machinery and deadly weapons.
This is important because the sort of quick thinking that's intrinsic in combat for example or the you know intelligence and spatial reasoning skills in say being an engineer for planes, can be a life and death matter not just for the troops but also for the sake of american or national security at large.
At that point then we think that there's affirmative justification to create some sort of sorting mechanism that even if these tests aren't flawlessly reflective of each individual person's intelligence relative to one another or even if on some sort of like objective graduated scale, it's important to have some sort of mechanism by which you can insure look we're going to be able to determine you know who is fit for what jobs and it's better than just shooting fish like sort of just like just guessing randomly.
This brings me to my second point which is that in so far is there is that need in society, we think there will just be some alternative mechanism for figuring out you know who is intelligent and who is not that is inherently worse.
So we think the types of intelligence tests that government talks about largely are the sort of like I take an IQ test so I can brag about it to my friends and tell them like yeah I've got like one twenty five IQ or whatever.
So I'll get more into sort of like the consent aspect of that and its impacts on the individual in a bit but I think what's important to recognize in the short term is that if there is both a social and a like occupational demand to have these types of tests, there will just be other ways that people are forced to devise to come up with like how to figure out who is intelligent and who isn't and I think even if this is pseudo science it is in some capacity based on like having like a consistent setting, like a testing environment and like having consistent questions asked.
The alternative is just significantly more subjective.
It is basically being like hey do you like know these historical events or like some other thing.
Like it's tough to figure out because gov never really delineates what it is.
Like what the alternative world looks like without these tests but it is inherently true that there is just like a social and occupational demand to devise something to figure out who and who isn't intelligent.
At that point, we think that people just use like subjective methods that are much more likely to favor people who are say like well educated or wealthy they are probably subjective based and like as result of that will reflect things like racial and sexual biases, gender biases, any number of things and as a result we think that the test where at least there is like some level of uniformity and some level of objectivity that takes the decision making power out of like the test takers hands for example, is always going to be better.
Our third independent point is that outside of the occupational context, people consent into taking these IQ tests.
So like when I take that IQ test that's like oh well I got like just want to get like a high score so I can brag to my friends about it like if I get a bad score and I'm like mocked by my friends or something which is probably the worst case scenario in that setting, we think that's a decision that you consent into.
Like recognize that people understand like you could do bad on a test and I think if they find themselves like suffering consequences of as a result of that, I think it's their prerogative to just decide when they're going to take the test if you know it's worth that risk, if it's worth those potential harms.
At that point then, I don't think a ban is justified because this is something that people can control for themselves.
Proud to oppose.