I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the double jeopardy defense or the double jeopardy rule for really one reason, that it will lead to significant abuse of the criminal justice system.
I think that the reasons that gov gives are fairly weak as to why this system will not be abused.
So I'd like to begin by explaining what the incentive for abuse is and why that will carry through.
So the incentive is actually pretty straight forward for continuing litigation.
Lawsuits have pretty high stakes in the fault of them.
These are especially true of the most pernicious examples of when there would be incentives to manipulate evidence and things like that.
These are the sort of multi-million dollar lawsuits and things of the sort wherein it is extremely likely that whoever loses in the initial trial, has an incentive to pursue litigation again.
This is also true because retrial simply delay punishment.
It is pretty much intuitively true that especially for high stakes cases like a life in prison, you have no reason to not attempt to delay this punishment.
Even in situations where the punishment is simply something monetary or a fine, your incentive is to push back the trial continually because you value your present time above your future time.
Given that it it just makes sense to try to make yourself actually deal with this consequence further down the road.
So what are the impacts of this abuse of the system?
First, there will be backlog.
So there are scarce resources right now in the criminal justice system.
This is part of the reason that we have plea bargains.
There is a huge amount of strain on a lack of public defenders.
There is a insufficient number of justices to administer the large amount of courts that do come cases that do come to trial.
People are unwilling to engage in jury duty.
There are a lot of reasons why it is difficult to hold trials on a regular basis.
So we think that given that people will likely abuse this to create more trials it will create a significant backlog within the criminal justice system.
That means worse administration of justice.
It also means big impacts on public coffers which translates into deficits for other programs you know pick your government program that you like, it could potentially suffer as a result of this.
Second is that there is a burden on the initial factor that more likely than not whoever was tried the first the result of the trial the first time around was probably correct.
Generally I'd like to think that our criminal justice system gets things right more frequently than it gets them wrong.
Given that, there is a significant burden placed on the person that was the rightful victor when you force them to go through repetitive re-trials you are putting a burden on an innocent individual by engaging in this practice and third is that the wealthy have a greater means to abuse this than the non-wealthy particularly for the reasons that gov actually articulate.
That re-litigation is something that's pretty expensive, that going to trial and hiring your your like legal team over and over again, is something that costs a decent amount of money.
So if you allow this type of abuse, then you will allow the wealthy individual in cases where there is some level of inequity between the two sides to whittle down the other side into submission.
We think that is problematic for a number of reasons.
Generally speaking the criminal justice system should be the great equalizer, that it should administer justice in a way that is fair and not based on who has the most means when possible.
The last thing I'd like to note here is that the defense that gov seems to continually give is that there is this like new evidence standard that's going to ensure that people can't abuse this.
That you have to present meaningfully new evidence that could swing the direction of the trial.
The problem with that standard is that judges can't really make a strong value judgment on whether or not this would swing the trial because the jury is supposed to make the decision on whether or not an individual is innocent.
A judge making a decision on whether or not evidence could meaningfully swing the trial is going to have to be a pretty wide net otherwise the judge would essentially be taking the role of the jury.
We think that a judge saying oh yes this could swing the direction would influence the jury and even in the best interpretation it would still mean that the judge is intervening in a case in a way that is like not within the spirit of the way our criminal justice system is supposed to work.
That means the bar will be exceptionally low and as a result of that we think that lots of people are going to be able to abuse the system.
Proud to oppose.