I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should subsidize investigative journalism.
Three independent points: first is that we think that subsidies from a general principle perspective are bad because they result in rent-seeking behavior.
What we mean by rent-seeking behavior is that the organizations that receive subsidies fundamentally alter their incentives once a significant portion of their bottom line or their revenue comes from government subsidies.
In a standard like free capitalist market, your incentive as a private firm is to do things that consumers want, like to make things that they want to buy, and that's how you make your money.
Subsidies change that, because now the person you are attempting to please is not the consumer but rather the government and whatever like particular parts of agenda that the government wants.
I'm not going to talk about the politics aspect of this here.
I'll get to that in a bit.
But what I do want to establish is that this incentives of the government are fundamentally different often from consumers.
Like even if this is some sort of objective sense of quality that you have in your head right now, like this idea that deeper dive journalism is better for the citizens, we think it is fundamentally problematic when the government and not citizens are making that decision based on what they want.
We think that a journalism like market that is reflective of the desires of consumers and what they want to see is always going to be significantly better and significantly like more reflective of what is actually utile or what makes those people happiest.
Our second independent point is that there are a set of incentives created by these subsidies, so this is the politics angle.
We think that it's unlikely to be as explicit as like president obama being like: hey, like, I don't know, national review.
Like, we're not going to subsidize your investigative journalism anymore because you're conservative.
Like it's probably not going to be that ridiculous.
What it probably looks more like is that presidents over time get weary of the investigative journalism that they are subsidizing becoming something that actively harms them.
Given that, then, they probably, in the long term, step away from these subsidies if the journalism targets them.
Journalists, however, knowing this, will probably be less likely to engage in like engage in journalism that is investigative of government institutions, particularly at the federal level, and rather more investigative of like private sector organizations or lower levels of government that don't determine their funding flow.
We think that because this is a preemptive move on the part of journalists, the politics never comes up and you never get the political firefight that would come up over getting rid of the subsidies.
Instead, we think you just get a tamer media landscape.
But secondly, we think that there's also just sort of like a ethical gray zone that is created when you have a media landscape that is particularly subject to like funding cycles.
So, like, even if there's no differences in the actual politics, we think that just conservatives will fund things less because conservatives do that.
So what happens, then, is that the quality of journalism literally becomes subject to political cycles, that when conservatives are in power, journalism gets worse because there's less funding for it.
We think that planning for these contingencies exists in the status quo, because funding is subject to things that are on a smoother curve, like readership or purchasing like newspapers as opposed to these political cycles.
So as a result, you get a lot more volatility in the news market and as such, a: firms probably financially suffer from this but, b: consumers definitely suffer from a perspective of access to information.
Our third independent point is that this is just an inefficient use of money.
Look.
For all the suffering that print media does, like web media is doing fantastic right now, this is not an industry that is strapped for cash.
And we think when it comes down to it, there are just various things that the government could spend its money on, and we don't think this is a particularly utile use of those funds.
We would wholeheartedly defend just about anything else that the government puts money into as a more utile use of funds, like food stamps, nasa, like whatever.
Like, it is probably a better dollar for dollar use than giving money to the new york times.
The new york times already has money.
Proud to oppose.