I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should subsidize public transportation.
We'll model this as, you know, just municipalities and states should simply just you know funnel more money into developing robust public transportation systems.
This can be anything from busses to trains to trolleys, what we really want here is just, you know, ways that people can be transported around a city or a like loose area cities an urban area or a metropolitan area , at low expense and in large groups at once, to you know reduce the number of vehicles that are moving around a metropolitan area at any given time.
Three independent points: first is that this decreases traffic.
The reasoning for why this decreases traffic is fairly intuitive.
You know, this just takes cars off the street because lots of people are in a bus instead of, you know, individual people in their various cars.
Likewise with the train, you have you know a couple hundred people on a train at once and the comparative to that as all of them driving their individual cars around.
So, this has pretty profound impacts on the quality of life in the city.
Certainly you know the pollution and noise pollution as well, that's associated with large amounts of traffic, not to mention just that the irritation of it taking a long time to get from one place to another.
But there's much more profound impacts on the environment.
Those decreased emissions from, you know, cars are just moving around but especially when they're just parked standing still.
That has like a really serious impact on ensuring that we you know mitigate the effects of global warming and things like that by decreasing the emissions that are generated from large urban centers.
Our second independent point is that public transportation can help mitigate the impacts of segregation in cities.
So, especially in western liberal democracies there is a high amount of racial segregation on a neighborhood to neighborhood basis in most cities.
This is largely based on like class lines as well, but it is you know undeniable, looking at the distribution of different racial identities across cities, that there is massive segregation.
This of course is a problem.
Especially when there's like class distinctions in terms of like your household income and things like that along these lines, that means that certain parts of the city are essentially left to languish in poverty because they have no industry, no jobs and no capacity to reach other parts of the city that you know offer more promise and more opportunity.
But also you know there's a socialization factor associated with that.
That you know people ever come into contact with others from other neighborhoods.
All this is a problem, and public transportation can mitigate that significantly.
You can allow people from poorer neighborhoods too more easily obtain work in richer neighborhoods by virtue of just having the capacity to get there more easily.
Likewise, just on a day to day basis, just traveling around your city, you get to see other parts of the city in a way that you might not of, and that, you know factor since the socialization aspect end, that allows you to actually physically see people from other neighborhoods and build those relationships that can integrate the city more thoroughly.
Our third independent point is economic activity.
That when movement is less restricted or when it's easier at least, it is you know easier to have all parts of the city interact with each other, and that has a serious economic effect.
This is pretty comparable to why international trade is usually mutually beneficial between different nations, that you know when people from one neighborhood can go to another one, that specializes in something or another, you know a fashion district or, you know a place that is really good to like buy groceries at, this allows each neighborhood to, you know, specialized essentially what they do, what products they sell, what types of businesses they have, and then market that out to the rest of the city.
That in turn means a city that could build on its own economy independently and be much more prosperous, and when freedom of movement is greater, that is easier to facilitate.
Proud to propose.