I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban the lotteries.
Three independent points: first is the funding that is derived from lotteries.
So, like most things, gov does refer to this as a tax, but like most taxes, the money from lotteries is used to fund essential functions of the state.
I think this is important because often lottery funding has to be earmarked for things that are especially good uses of funding in order to make them more palatable.
Obviously there are oppositions to these funds so in order to make them easier to stomach, the legislature has a direct incentive to put it towards something pretty unobjectionable that generally needs more funding, like say education or mental health services or homelessness.
This is a problem then when you get rid of the lottery because you get rid of the funding for this.
Even if government wants to get up here and claim, " oh, well they're just going to use the lottery funding for that thing ", and then decrease the funding through other sources to make it look like they're meeting their obligation, the point is now whatever incentive the legislature had to underfund that thing previously will continue because they can blame the funding gap on the abolition of the lottery.
Officials who have control over budgets can say, " oh, well the reason that we have to close these schools is because you couldn't have your lottery anymore. "
That's a problem then, and people suffer for it.
So particularly, when gov tells you that like, " oh, the poor are the people who disproportionately are harmed by these lotteries ", they are also disproportionately harmed by large spending cuts from the government for what we consider to be unobjectionable policies, like mental health services and education.
Again, this will have a disproportionate effect on the poor because the funding gaps are going to disproportionately target programs that benefit them.
Our second independent point is that without a lottery, generally there will be some form of black market.
So while this might not be as pernicious as other forms of gambling, the base reasons why people enjoy lotteries are quite comparable to gambling.
Again, through the addiction analysis that comes under government, this seems to be implicitly conceded.
Given that, we think that it is inevitable a black market will form insofar as there is demand for the practice.
As is often the case with black markets, the harms that are exemplified in government's arguments are going to be significantly worse.
When there is no regulation.
It is harder to beat back abusive practices.
When there is when there is like no legality to the practice itself, addiction is harder to have treated, because you have to admit that you were doing an illegal thing.
So people will be hesitant to seek treatment.
All of these are problems, and I think all of these outweigh what government tells you about how like the like omnipresence of lotteries makes them so problematic.
Recognize that even if you restrict the number of people participating in the market, if you make it harder for those people to get out, the harms are worse.
Our third and final independent point is that people have the right to consent into self-harm.
The reason for this is that there isn't an objective definition of what harm is.
What I might find to be, you know, something that is bad and something that I would personally choose to do, doesn't mean I should restrict you from doing it.
So while I while I, on balance, see that like lotteries are like a problem because the actual financial amount that I would get out of it is never going to come up to the amount of money that I would put into the lottery, that doesn't mean that they're inherently like unintelligent decisions to make, right?
Like you could just like enjoy the process of gambling, because people do kind of get a rush out of it, and that is pleasure, right?
I think at the most basic level, pleasure is something that we can say is good.
Like when people are happy, that's a good thing.
And if gambling makes people happy, let them gamble.
Proud to oppose.