I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the double jeopardy defense.
Our first independent point is that this opens up the criminal justice system for significant abuse.
We think that when we look at re-litigation and specifically how this would change the landscape of our criminal justice system.
We think that the people with the power to re-litigate and the incentive to re-litigate will often be wealthy individuals who want to use this as an opportunity, essentially, to force opponents into submission.
So one of the issues that is significant within the criminal justice system and that we often engage in policies designed to correct for is that wealthy individuals have the power to, you know, essentially have better resources in the courtroom that can ensure success.
The problem with this of course and the way that we think that specifically the double jeopardy defense works is that often there is a limit on you know what those resources can do for you.
And we think that at a certain point if an individual is clearly innocent they can muster up what resources they have and you know essentially win the case.
The problem of course is that if you allow for re-litigation continually then we think that this allows for wealthy individuals to abuse the system in a way that disproportionately harms those without the resources to continually pay for these re-litigation issues.
At that point then, we think that wealthy individuals can abuse this to essentially re-litigate others into oblivion and make the criminal justice system work in their favor.
This of course is principally unfair and we think that the really the only way to protect against this is to assure that double jeopardy is protected against.
Our second independent point is that we think that trials should be final, really from a principaled perspective.
This is for three reasons: first, is fairness.
We think that often times the way that we want our trials to work is we want them to reach a verdict, say, this is what happened and call it a day, essentially.
We think it is necessarily unfair then when that verdict is made meaningless by the lack of a double jeopardy protection.
Secondly, we think that that that ensuring the trials can't be redone ensures that the first time around they're done with care.
That because you know you're not going to get a second shot at this you're going to do it right the first time around and ensure the utmost care and precaution in everything that you do.
This is valuable for ensuring correct outcomes and as such we think that it's important that we keep that incentive structure in place.
And third, we think that the accused has a principled right to relief essentially.
There's a lot of stress that is intrinsic to essentially being accused of a significant crime and we think that when one is found to be not guilty that that essentially gives them relief from the stress that's associated with that.
We think that in a world where double jeopardy doesn't exist and that trial can be redone at any point we think that that puts a lot of stress on the individual accused person and at that point then we think that it is extremely problematic to essentially tell people that you can you know remain at risk of being tried for this crime for the rest of your life.
This then puts a disproportionate burden on the individual that we think is fundamentally unjust.
Proud to oppose.