I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban alternative medicine.
I want to start the speech by just noting a problem holistically with what gov did in this round.
That they're model, the way that they approach this, just wasn't the motion.
Like we can defend, on either side of the house, greater regulation.
Labeling laws, things like that.
But the motion isn't labeling laws for for alternative medicine.
The motion is ban alternative medicine.
That is don't allow it to exist.
Don't tell people that you can market this as medicine or anything like that.
Right?
Like it is an outright ban.
It cannot happen, it cannot be around.
I think you can go back and forth about how you would model out that ban, but this round is about a ban.
Given that, two independent points: first is the right to choose.
So two sub-points under this really: one is that there is a non-zero chance that these types of medicine are just legitimately better.
Right?
Like I don't think we can ever say with a hundred percent confidence like exposition is inherently incorrect.
There are some like actual arguments to be made in terms of the you know corrupt FDA, corrupt pharmaceutical lobby, things like that.
Reasons why actual medicine, or like what we consider to be actual medicine, might not be the perfect remedy for whatever illness you're dealing with.
Given that, we think that it is just reasonable to allow people to make a decision that you know, might not be something that we personally agree with, but is something that is at a defensible position.
Yeah.
Second independent second sub-point under this is that people are allowed to consent into harm.
Even if you think that it is just objectively true that alternative medicine is garbage and that there is no reason that anybody should ever consume it, we still think that there are reasons why people might a, just like make the you know cost-benefit analysis and decide that even if this thing is something that is harmful through your eyes and mine, that is something that they see to be reasonable, you know like the peace of mind provided by alternative medicine that something like you know chemotherapy doesn't provide.
But secondly, we just respect people's autonomy.
People are allowed to make mistakes.
People are allowed to do you know things that don't totally make sense to you and me.
And that's important.
That's really really important to people's rights and the way we conceive of rights, and I think undermining that, by just outright banning a thing that people have the right to consume, is important.
But I wanna get into my second point, which is about the black market.
Because I think this clashes more directly with the arguments that gov provides about why there are harms intrinsic to alternative medicine.
Recognize that without the regulation or oversight that can exist on our side of the house, there's going to be a black market where because these products are demanded, because you know people talk about this and gwyneth paltrow sells whatever thing that she sells, there's always going to be demand for this product.
So whether it's sold through an illegal internal market, or people just like fly abroad to thailand or wherever to buy this from some person that claims to be like a you know age old mystic healer something, this is still going to continue happening.
Like, I find it really interesting that gov uses the example of steve jobs to show a person that wouldn't have consumed alternative medicine if this was something that had like ban or greater regulation on, like I think steve jobs had access to the literature on alternative medicine.
I think steve jobs could have flown to a different country if it wasn't available in this one.
And that's important because even on face value, I don't think that side government actually protects people from the harms of alternative medicine.
But secondarily I don't think of the mechanisms they propose for solving that issue are actually unique to their side of the house.
That without a ban you can still regulate something.
This is why black markets are bad.
Because you can't regulate the black market.
You can't put labels on things that are sold behind closed doors.
But on our side of the house you can institute those regulations.
You can create a safer marketplace that has less harms.
Proud to pro - oppose.