I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should increase the retirement age.
So we'll model this as essentially increasing the age at which government benefits that are dependent on you know or at least predicated on the assumption that one has retired, will increase the age at which this cash in.
So things like social security or pensions you know that sort of thing.
And obviously we're not gonna take any specific bright line because that's something that varies from country to country, but we will just sort of broadly say that there is a need to increase the age at which those are cashed in at.
The first independent argument we're going to advance under this is that increasing life expectancies drive a principled need to you know increase the age at which these are cashed in on.
I think the reason that we even initially had these sorts of programs for elderly individuals is based on the assumption that, you know, with your declining health as you get older this just isn't it's not financially or it's not you know physiologically feasible for you to continue working at such an old age.
People have physical restraints on them that just prevent them from doing a lot of the labor that they historically had done throughout much of their lives.
And so instead we, you know, have a state support system that allows then to continue having a comfortable and you know reasonable lifestyle into that old age, even if they can't work.
The problem with this of course, in more recent days, is that as you know medical advances have advanced, the quality of life in old age and but also life expectancy, has increased.
That in turn means that the age at which it just becomes physically unreasonable to continue working has in turn increased.
But what we see not enough of is essentially increasing ages you know along side those those increased you know life expectancies and increased qualities of life in older age.
As such I think there's just a principle justification for why these these goalpost should be moved forward, that is that we should expect people to you know continue working when they have the capacity to.
And if something is targeted to old age, the target should you know move along with what the standard expectation is for somebody being in good health.
Our second independent point is that this just isn't a financially sustainable model in the status quo.
So particularly with the you know the aging out of baby boomers there's been a rise in the number of elderly people in our society relative to younger people.
And the system of you know things like social security and other you know related benefits for the elderly, is predicated on younger people who are actively in the workforce contributing money towards these programs, as you know elderly people consume them.
And you know essentially I'm I as an individual am paying into this on the assumption the people that come after me will pay my benefits when I'm older.
The problem then is that when the population distribution is lopsided insolvency is almost guaranteed.
That is there's too many old people so as a result there's not enough young people paying and there's really only two ways to solve for this then: one is just to reduce the quality of the benefits.
We think this is a problem though because that then you know defeats the whole purpose of the system.
That if your benefits aren't big enough then you can't be a reasonably be expected to stop working.
And as such that system doesn't have much of a point.
Or you simply tell people you have to wait another year or two until you can cash in.
This then seems to be the optimal solution arm at least when compared to the other one, and insofar as you know it's principally consistent with the idea that people are you know becoming incapable of work later in life, it also just seems you know a totally reasonable expectation.
Given that the entire system would bottom out and become useless if we don't reduce the amount of money we're spending, I think this system, that is you know moving the goalpost is certainly preferable to insolvency.
Proud to propose.