I am proud to oppose the motion that we should ban targeted killing.
Three independent points, first is that targeted killing severely impedes the skill capacity of individual terrorist or non-state actor organizations.
So when we engage in targeted killing, say by a drone strike, we're usually not shooting for foot soldiers.
We're shooting for say munitions experts or political leaders or communications directors, people that are high up in the membership of this opponent organization.
We think that utilization of targeted killing then allows us to focus our resources on taking out the people that make a terrorist organization effective at being terrorists.
This is notable in say, the usage of targeted killing against hamas, in I think it was the early nineties, where there was a market decrease in the number of casualties per attack sponsored by hamas over the course of that decade, as their leadership and the people that literally just like knew how to make bombs and things like that were picked off.
By taking out these people at the top, the people that have committed the most crimes and are responsible for the most suffering, we think we maintain a moral high ground while also mitigating the suffering created by these organizations.
In here I want to essentially say that the burden in this round and what the obligations of states are is relatively simple.
That rather than some sort of like bizarre lofty moral code that government rests on without really defining, we should simply defined the obligation of the state to protect its citizens.
We think that all states really are easy conglomeration of citizens who are self-interested particularly interested in their own security.
At that point then, the security of the state should be the state's first priority and things like killing terrorists obviously like meet that standard.
Our second independent point is that this creates a fear of joining terrorist organizations.
So specifically we hear this line out of government that says that when we engage in targeted killing we like increase anti-american sentiment and rally people against the government thus increasing recruitment for terrorist organizations.
This however in addition to never being empirically verified, is probably from an analytical or logical perspective also false.
The reasoning here is that they can be as you know like furious as they want about like collateral damage but the reality is that people are unlikely to join organizations where they feel they are going to be like picked up off out of the sky if they join it.
Furthermore, we think the collateral damage like creates this like this notion in their head essentially that not only will they put themselves at risk by joining a terrorist group, they will also put people that are in their immediate vicinity and thus subject to collateral damage impacts into danger as well.
This is you know their friends, families, etcetera.
At that point then we think that these attacks are more likely to result in people not willing to join organizations that risk their safety and those of their loved ones.
Our third and final independent point is that like even if you want to take sort of like the moral high ground argumentation the government takes, the reality is that banning targeted killing probably just results in hegemonic powers like the united states simply using worse methods of like military intervention.
So I think one example of this is just like boots on the ground.
Like if you cannot kill osama bin laden like with a drone strike or with a targeted drop of like seal team six or whatever, what realistically happens is you find out where he is hiding and then you just invade pakistan in order to surround the like the compound.
In that contingency then, we think first there is significantly more collateral damage and significantly more innocent deaths.
Like from a statistical perspective it is just true that boots on the ground results in more collateral damage but secondly, we think there are more legal and ethical issues involved with the full scale invasion of another country.
At that point then, we think that targeted killing at a dead minimum is just sort of like the best of the worst when it comes to options for hegemonic powers.
Proud to oppose.