I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban corporal punishment.
Two independent points: the first of which is the efficacy of corporal punishment.
We think that really there are two reasons that corporal punishment works.
The first is that it creates sort of a pavlovian reflex in individuals that is that it makes a very crisp and clear association with bad behavior with a specific form of pain.
So specifically I think the reason that we punish people in general, and that we try to tell them x thing was bad, is that we want people to associate some sort of displeasure with the bad thing so that they don't do the bad thing anymore.
Given that then I think that physical pain is, for probably pretty obvious reasons, a really effective way to create that association in one's mind.
This is something that's extremely crisp and clear as like a bad thing.
The sort of mechanisms for pro side gov like, to sort of like, humiliation and shame are much more subjective and don't really work for everybody but we think that pain, particularly physical pain, is much more universal in its effectiveness.
But secondly we think that there's a deterrence factor as well, that unlike social mores which, you know, sort of numb over time and don't become as effective, we think that pain is something that you know will continue to be bad no matter what.
So we think that it will continue to deter people from engaging in bad behavior by just you know being a really crisp and clear thing that people just don't like happening to them.
So we think then that compared to the sort of methods proposed by side government this is just a simply more effective way of ensuring that people behave properly.
Our second independent point gets more into the principles though of this.
Specifically in the beginning of gov's speech there's a discussion about universalizable behavior and how that's what determines ethics.
That is to say that if something is ethical, it has to be universalizable.
We think this is a ridiculous standard.
So take the example that they use of like lying versus telling the truth.
On a more utilitarian sense of like whether or not the action causes more benefits and harms, they say that lying is bad because sometimes it hurts people, therefore lying is always bad.
But the problem with this is that the converse, they say truth is usually good therefore, it should always be considered to be the better thing, is ridiculous.
Because sometimes telling the truth is bad for the same reason that sometimes lying is good.
There are instances in which truth , you know, creates harm, so it's not universalizable.
In fact, almost no behavior is universalizable and the reason for this is that we define individual behaviors on a very arbitrary basis.
The reality is that lying in one context, or, in the case of this motion, corporal punishment in one context, is different from in another context.
So something like hitting your kid because, I don't know they like didn't look both ways before crossing the street, is significantly different than like, physical punishment for like an inmate who like killed a person.
We think that there are different shades of gray, in that it's really hard to draw specific line in the sand where corporal punishment becomes a reasonable response, but I think this universalizable standard is really ridiculous.
Because there's no such thing as an individual behavior or individual action which is always just.
Instead, we should use more context specific metrics for determining when something is appropriate.
That is, based on the specific instance, is this action ethical, does it create more harm than good?
And we think specifically, if the action that is the corporal punishment prevents the person from committing said crime or doing said bad thing again, it does more good than harm.
That should be the basis for determining ethical behavior and that's the basis under which we defend corporal punishment.
Proud to oppose.