I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should further exploit green technology.
We would say that this is essentially just, you know, more public and private investment into this technology and into this industry, and we would expand its integration into our energy infrastructure.
To independent points: first is global warming.
So, it's almost intuitive as to why green technology mitigates global warming.
Global warming is largely driven by fossil fuels and other energy sources that expend expel emissions, these emissions.
Things like carbon dioxide or methane contribute heavily to global warming because their gases that retain large amounts of heat, otherwise known as greenhouse gases.
These then have a really detrimental effect on the global temperatures causing them to rise.
This in turn then has a slew of negative side effects.
Rising sea levels from glacial melting, for example, or changing weather patterns.
Even , you know, just changing of habitats that makes them uninhabitable for animals has a severe impact on local ecosystems.
This all turns into what is essentially the greatest issue of our time.
It's something that poses an existential threat to humanity in terms of a drastic reshaping of our ecosystem, of our planet, and even the resources that we need to survive.
Things like food sources and water sources are seriously threatened by global warming.
Given that this issue is so prevalent then, it is reasonable to take any step necessary to mitigate its impact, and certainly one of those steps is pivoting towards green technology - something they can decrease our reliance on the fossil fuels that are driving this issue - and even if it doesn't fully solve, it's a meaningful step towards taking you know the steps that we need to solve this problem.
Our second independent point is the fact that these energy sources are renewable.
So beyond the impact it has on global warming and mitigating it spread, this is also really important to ensuring that our energy infrastructure is sustainable and cost efficient.
What green technology proposes, that sources like fossil fuels can't, is a long term sustainability.
Fossil fuels are finite.
That means that in the long term we can't rely on them as the sole driver for our energy infrastructure.
In fact in the very long time, we can't even factor them in as a small component of our energy infrastructure.
They'll be gone.
So we need to replace that infrastructure.
We need a way to supply ourselves with energy in the long term.
You know, keep our cars running, keep our lights on, keep everything going, without relying on fossil fuels to do it.
And at this point in time, we're not there yet.
We don't have sufficient infrastructure to actually make that transition, so we need to develop these technologies - things like solar and wind and nuclear - to actually be capable of replacing the existing infrastructure.
These technologies, as it stands now, aren't energy efficient.
They don't have the capacity to fuel our world.
But if we make meaningful steps towards investing in these technologies and conducting the research necessary to expand their capacity, then we'll have the ability to really invest into our future.
To ensure that our infrastructure is capable of meeting the demands that we have in the future.
That's deeply important.
Both from the perspective of having a world that could actually operate properly but from a cost perspective as well.
That is, if we are eventually forced to switch over to these new forms of infrastructure, we want to make sure that we don't have a massive shock to the system in terms of how much more it'll cost to run the world on the wind and solar.
If energy cost go up too much, they could have drastic effects on the global poor, meaning that they don't have reliable access to to heat or electricity, could really really damage a lot of people's lives and it could damage their quality of life.
So we want to ensure then, that when we make that transition we're capable of making that transition.
Proud to propose.