I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban telemarketing.
Our first independent point is that telemarketing doesn't meet the standard of harm necessary to justify a government ban.
We think that government bans are only justified when people did not meaningfully consent into a harm that is inflicted upon them.
That is, if that activity is intrinsically linked to a harm that is inflicted upon a person who either you know couldn't meaningfully grapple with the effects of what they were agreeing to or alternatively, didn't agree to it all, then we think that there is a justified you know path for a ban.
The problem we think with telemarketing is that there is a meaningfully accessible way to opt out of telemarketing.
You can put yourself on do not call lists.
You can block callers.
You know there there are routes you can take to ensure that you are not you know going to have this inflicted upon you and I think the information about how to opt out of these lists is relatively accessible.
For starters, anybody with an internet connection, which is essentially everyone these days especially with like public libraries having internet, can just google this sort of thing and figure out relatively easily how to be placed on a do not call list but we also think this is relatively common knowledge that every time a telephone scam goes around this is usually in like a local news channel saying here's how to put yourself in a do not call list that sort of thing.
So we think then at that point that if their the perceived nuisance that government talks about is you know as extreme as it is, there is a way to opt out of that harm that makes it such that we don't think a ban is justified.
That as long as there are benefits to these types of cold calls for some people we shouldn't basically force them to not be allowed to receive these calls.
So this brings me to my second independent point which is one of the potential benefits of having a telemarketing system in place is the spread of information.
So we think that while a lot of telemarketing is scams, there is a certainly a percentage of telemarketing that is like genuinely well intentioned that for example a lot of a lot of like nonprofits will try to call people that could potentially benefit from new policies using telemarketing, that a lot of other charitable organizations will essentially use these caller lists to try to reach out to people who can't be reached through other more traditional means like say, you know meeting them in person.
This is the same demographic the government is concerned with protecting often elderly people who you know can't be found at like their place of work because they're retired or have some other restricting factor that keeps them from being contacted to a more traditional means.
We think then, that absent you know this information there are obvious articulable harms that can be inflicted upon this population you know lack of access to services that sort of thing and we think that on balance it makes sense to preserve the practice and allow people to opt out of the system in order to ensure that you know those harms aren't necessarily inflicted.
Our third independent point though regards public polling.
So we think that specifically telemarketing's most significant contribution to society is the ability of public pollsters or private pollsters for that matter, to call people and find out their opinion on various issues whether that be you know like elections or issues of public policy and then publish those results.
A lot of decision making in this country and a lot of news coverage is predicated on our ability to understand what people are thinking at any given moment, that is, what the public wants.
This has a really profound impact on you know how our government acts, how news agencies cover particular issues because they perceive something to be the majority opinion.
This has a really profound impact on our society and we think that if you ban telemarketing you inevitably get rid of the ability of polling firms to cold call people based on you know their you know status as a likely voter any number of other characteristics.
That in and of itself creates enough public good that we think that it is significantly important to keep that right in place to ensure that we can continue to have robust public polling.
Proud to oppose.