I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should increase our investments into small modular reactors.
Our first independent point is the waste intrinsic to nuclear reactors in general.
So we think that first off there is a significant environmental impact generated by this waste.
That even when stored like in allegedly safe locations there's often significant leakage of the waste because it's liquid in nature and as such this disrupts local ecosystems.
The radiation that comes from even low danger nuclear waste can often kill lots of animals and wildlife and even those that aren't killed by the nuclear radiation are usually harmed by the damage to the ecosystem at large.
So for example if it kills mice then like the snakes that eat the mice will starve.
So we think then that there are really broad impacts on the environment created by this nuclear waste that are really worth mitigating.
Primarily we think this is a problem because of animal rights.
That is to say that animals, in so far as they experience you know pleasure and suffering, are deserving of rights or that is to say minimization of suffering and maximization of pleasure.
And realistically speaking I don't think that we should you know put nuclear waste in their backyards if we want to secure that right.
But secondly, even from a human centric perspective, there are harms on the ability to hunt local wildlife, the ability to just enjoy nature as you're walking around, and the ability to not contract radiation poisoning as you're walking around in your local environment.
Given that then, we think that even from a human centric perspective there are significant problems with increasing the amount of nuclear power and nuclear energy produced within this country.
We furthermore though think that all of this is an issue because of disparities in implementation of where the waste goes.
Disproportionately waste is placed in low income minority communities.
Take for example sierra blanca in texas which became a site for dumping nuclear waste you know despite being not in a particularly strategic location to put it however it was a disproportionately latino and poor community and as such they lack the political you know capital and political power to actually fight against that sighting of the nuclear waste.
At that point then we think it's important to recognize that the impact that this has on the environment and also the disparate impact that it has on poor and minority individuals within this country significant enough to mitigate the energy benefits touted by side government.
Our second independent point regards the expertise needed for operation of particularly small modular reactors.
So when you're looking at big nuclear reactors like your typical idea of what nuclear power plant like say three mile island you're looking at a big facility that often attracts top notch attention and topshop notch managers because of how significant it is and by extension how much you can pay people.
The problem with small modular reactor is that by separating out the reactors geographically you minimize the quality of oversight because you're spreading a talent base thinner rather than just you know having them see over one centralized plant.
At that point then we think there's you know two problems with this.
One, just like from an economic perspective the plants are one you know not as well and as such we get less benefit out of them, but secondly, I think there's a concern in terms of like meltdowns in the other really significant harms that can be intrinsic to nuclear power plants.
Recognize that because there's such a high level of danger associated with this type of energy we want like topnotch people actually running these plans and the problem with small modular reactors creating that thin spread of expertise means that you are going to have that subpar management and a such you are going to have a higher likelihood of mistakes being made, mistakes that can be drastic in nature and incur a significant toll of damage.
Proud to oppose.