I'm proud to stand a proposition of the motion that we should abolish the security council veto of the UN.
I think the model is pretty intuitive here just like we would say that the p five is not allowed to or veto any sort of resolution or anything like that that comes across the security council.
Two points under this.
First, that it is unfair and second, that it mitigates the efficacy of the UN.
On the first point that it's unfair, I think it's fairly intuitive to say that it is probably unfair that if everyone in the UN or everyone in the world for that matter except for one country thinks that something is true but that one country happens to be the US and as a result that resolution doesn't get pass, I think it is fair to say that that is an unfair practice.
There are tons of examples of this happening with, for example, motions against abuses committed by israel where literally everyone but the US and israel is on board with passing this resolution, but because the US has veto power that means that it doesn't get passed.
So I think just on the most fundamental level there is a lot of unfairness intrinsic to this process that you give certain world powers a bigger voice at the table just by virtue of the fact that they have more muscle.
I don't think this is like a reasonable basis upon which to say you deserve to have more voice.
It's not even like it's scaled to population or something.
Like it's like even like frances has veto power.
Like it's in some cases it's not even based on whether or not this country is an actual meaningful world power.
It's based on historical role powers from like the forties.
So I don't think any of this is like a reasonable basis upon which to justify who gets to say everyone agrees on this but me therefore it doesn't pass.
But beyond this, we would say that it's unfair because it perpetuates imperialist structures.
That is because the current larger powers get to vote down everything that they disagree with.
They get to perpetuate their power by closing out the smaller like countries and things like that.
So it's important to recognize then, that because it has this self affirming cycle intrinsic to it it creates a global structure in terms of the security hierarchy that is designed to make it impossible for smaller countries to ever have their voice heard in a meaningful way unless they pander and grovel to the larger powers who will inevitably try to like make good on what they granted this smaller power at some point in the future.
Our second independent point is that it mitigates the efficacy of the UN.
So I think what's important to see here is that a lot of what the UN does is sort of in name only.
It's a lot of we're passing x resolution condemning y.
It's a lot less likely that the UN's actually going to take some sort of affirmative action on something you know situations like putting peacekeepers in rwanda.
Those are the exception not the norm and to be fair they are often organized externally anyway through like nato or something like that which provides the troops and coordinates the action and things like that.
So a lot of what the UN does it's important to basically have a a group that says x is good and y is bad.
The problem then is that inevitably large powers like say russia, commit atrocities.
A good example of this is the ongoing crisis in the ukraine where the UN is incapable of formally condemning what are obvious massive human rights abuses and huge sovereignty infringements because russia just has the capacity to vote these things down.
This is the fundamental purpose of the UN though is to condemn things when they are when people do bad stuff and if the UN doesn't have the capacity to do that because the most powerful and problematic actors in the world have the ability to say I don't like it when you don't like me, then that means that the UN loses its capacity to function in a meaningful way.
Proud to propose.