I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban racial profiling.
Two independent points: first is accuracy.
It's important to recognize that there is a statistical correlation between likelihood to commit certain types of crimes and certain like visual indicators.
So, certain races are just like statistically more significant.
There're a multitude of reasons for this, including historic poverty and oppression, ranging to cultural differences for different like levels of tolerance or religious differences that specific religions specifically radical sects of those religions dictate like violent policies and things like that.
The statistical correlations, regardless of what the cause for them, mean that it is inherently more likely that individuals with certain skin tones are going to be more likely to commit certain crimes.
This is important to recognize because I think the distinction between that and like profiling someone because they're running from a crime scene is irrelevant.
Probable cause should really just rest on the on a probability-based bright-line that it is probable to suspect someone of of committing a crime or being about to commit a crime that is for like subjecting them to a random search based on the probability that they are committing the crime, and if this probability of that crime is significantly higher, based on racial aspects, then it is just to in commit that profiling.
I want to recognize here that like gov seems to interpret racial profiling to be something that just like we stop every brown person in the airport to check for a bomb.
I think the reality is a little more complicated though, that what actually happens is you have a certain behavior pattern that warrants suspension.
So like, for example, screaming " bomb " is like really suspicious and anyone, regardless of their skin color, is probably going to get searched at a dead minimum after doing that.
We would say that for racial groups that are statistically like more likely to commit these types of crimes and just like have a longer track record of doing so, just have like a lower bright-line.
So it's not like every brown person in the airport gets like an aggressive pat-down.
It's something more to the effect of just like more brown people in the airport get pat-downs than like white people or black people or whatever racial group you want to choose that isn't likely to like actually engage in the types of crimes that are generally associated with airports.
So, given that, I think the impact here is pretty important that just like less crime happens because you are targeting it more effectively, that you are statistically going after individuals who are more likely to commit these crimes and then, by extension, you reduce the suffering that is intrinsic to like laws, like mass violence or whatever crime you want to talk about.
Our second independent point is that this ban mitigates the efficacy of law enforcement.
So it's important to recognize then the way in which this policy would be enforced.
The way that generally we talk about like discrimination lawsuits is you take a look at the statistical record of the institution and say did they, you know, basically administer this unevenly.
So like employment discrimination, for example, is usually proven by just like looking at the payrolls or the hiring rates of this individual firm and being like, " well, they didn't really hire any black people so they're probably kind of racist. "
The problem with applying this logic to law enforcement is that the proof of the abuse is arrest rates, but if statistically it is just more likely that people of a certain race are going to commit x crime, the police department now has to just like distort their practices and artificially either inflate their number of like white people for that crime or just ignore large amounts of like people of color in order to make sure that they're not going to be like prosecuted for discrimination under racial profiling laws.
This is a problem because, again, this means that you're going to have more crime, more suffering, that results from that crime and less efficacy within your departments, because there's legal structures barring them from doing their jobs properly.
Proud to oppose.