I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should criminalize assisted suicide.
We're obviously going to do this from a physician side, that is, we would, you know, incur the penalty on the individual physician, you know, penalty for this would be, you know, jail time, something like a a manslaughter charge essentially.
We would generally this happens through, you know, prescription of drugs that are, you know, designed to take the patient's life.
So we would say that, you know, prescribing those drugs would incur the penalty essentially.
Our first independent point is that obtaining consent in these situations is uncertain at best.
The way that this generally works, that is, physician-assisted suicide, is that you have a patient that, you know, has been seeing an individual physician for quite some time, has a very severe illness, and wants to end their life early due to the suffering that that illness is going to incur.
The problem is that these illnesses quite often a: because they're generally looking at, you know, older patients, but b: just because the illnesses themselves often house , you know, ailments that are associated with mental deterioration, it's difficult then to obtain what what would constitute meaningful consent.
And what I mean by this is that the patient has to agree to the procedure or, you know, to the prescription of these medicines that will kill them with full knowledge of the of what will happen when that is prescribed and when they take that medicine.
Because these illnesses are so often associated with mental deterioration, it's difficult to actually know whether or not the patient is fully understanding of the implications of what is going on.
Absent that consent, it's it's simply unconscionable, then, to actually go through with this and to allow the prescription of these medicines.
It probably doesn't merit much explanation but obviously like death is a bad thing, in and of itself.
If we assume life to have any value, if we assume life to, you know, not even be net pleasure but just be a thing that has independent value, then this is something that we should be taking really active and serious steps to mitigate the loss of.
And even if a significant amount of people, you know, do meaningfully consent into this, I think that lack of consent, that lack of capacity to know for sure whether everybody is actually agreeing into this procedure is a serious issue that merits a ban.
But our second independent point is that this the procedure itself from the physician's perspective does often merit something that actually is a a breach of the relationship between the patient and the doctor.
And the reason for this is that oftentimes suicide is simply just not a logical choice.
This isn't something that most people consent into and it's a reason that, you know, it sort of puts people on edge when they think about it, for a very good reason.
Life is something that people enjoy having.
It's , you know, something that is is good on the net, and generally then, when we think of suicide, particularly in younger patients, we associate it with mental illness, that suicide itself is or suicidal depression is often itself considered mental illness.
And the reason for this is that it's not a a normal decision for people to make to say that they want to end their lives.
I think the problem then is that when you allow physician-assisted suicide, you're allowing this doctor to essentially make that decision to facilitate what is essentially a mental illness, to step in and decide that this is something that they are going to play along with, and that they are going to actively enable.
And this is a problem, again, because of the, you know, the impact of human life and why that intrinsically has value independent of the quality of the life itself.
Proud to propose.