I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should increase fuel taxes.
Our first independent point is that this is a regressive policy.
What we mean by regressive is that it has a disproportionately high negative impact on people who are less capable of paying.
So particularly what we mean by this is that poorer people are going to have to pay a larger percentage of their income to this tax than the rich would.
The reason for this is twofold.
First, richer people are more capable of transitioning to renewable energy sources and as such will be able to move away from fuel while the scaling costs are disproportionately accrued on the poor people left behind.
The way that this works out is that, say you increase the fuel tax and it becomes more expensive.
Now, very, very rich person at the top of the income scheme can say, hm this is getting a bit burdensome.
I think I'm going to switch over to putting solar panels on my roof, which is all well and good to ensure you know that I don't have to pay as much in electricity costs.
Poorer people however, because they don't have the capacity to front that up front capital and get solar panels are relegated instead to not only pay the higher fuel prices now that you know the actual tax has made it more expensive, but also they're forced to deal with the fact that the actual plant, the gas plant, has to charge more like per unit of fuel because they're not able to scale their costs out as effectively.
When you have more consumers the recurring you know like baseline costs, like running the facility and things like that and like building maintenance, ensures that on a per person basis they have to your consumers don't have to pay as much.
So when your consumer base is eroded then by poaching off the rich people and having them switch over to renewable energy poor people are left to suffer under the fact that gas prices increase for two reasons then.
So at that point then we think the policy is fundamentally unfair because it ensures that the people with the least means to pay for an increase in their energy costs are forced to pay a disproportionate amount of the burden of dealing with global warming.
We think this is doubly unfair too because largely the practices of the wealthy people who say, own factories and make the sort of decisions that created the large amount of emissions that lead to global warming, are largely to blame then for those decisions.
But we think it is then fundamentally unfair that the global poor have to pay for that decision.
Our second independent point is that a fuel tax increases the price of goods.
Something that, once again, disproportionately places a burden on poor people.
So the reason why the prices of goods in general go up is because shipping costs go up.
So your truck, for example, that drives things across the country to come to your doorstep uses fuel to get there.
And a lot of your shipping costs are associated with that actual movement.
Likewise, a lot of energy and fuel is expended in the generation of the product.
So things that are made in a factory, for example, usually that factory runs on you know coal or natural gas or whatever.
As such then the fuel tax increases the burden placed on the firm and those costs are then transferred off to the consumer who has to pay more for products.
This is problematic for the economy as a whole because it means that people have less you know purchasing power essentially because goods the price of goods have gone up.
But it's doubly important for poorer individuals because they have to spend a disproportionate amount of their income on consumption.
That is they can't save, they have to spend like a large percentage of their income on like housing costs and food costs and things.
So this is even more regressive and even more problematic for the country's poor.
Proud to oppose.