I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the electoral college.
First independent point is that there is a need for geographic representation that the electoral college uniquely provides.
So in the status quo the united states is comprised largely of a group of really big states that make up the majority of its population and a lot of small states.
The problem with this is that if we engage in a system of like you know proportional representation essentially or a direct popular vote those small states often become meaningless.
This is a problem and I think it's often people have trouble abstracting this out to like a state by state level but it makes sense if you think of it in terms of people.
Like we care about minority rights because we think that even if there's less minorities they're subject to abuse because there's less of them.
And because they're subject to receive more harms essentially they deserve basically disproportionate protections.
I think the same make sense with states.
Like states has specific agendas and specific interests that are intrinsic quite often to their rights and their interests.
And it makes sense therefore, to create systems that ensure that these states won't just be ignored by the political system.
We need the electoral college in that regard because it provides a capacity to ensure that small states don't just get bulldozed by like new york, california, and texas all the time.
It's really important to ensure that like little wyoming actually has its voice heard and people at the federal level actually care about the opinions of people from wyoming.
Given that, we think it's really unfair to adopt a system that is almost certain to just completely ignore whatever the will of you know wyoming's are.
So our second independent point is fraud.
That fraud is easier to commit under a popular vote.
And the reason for this is that under the electoral college your system for voting is divided into silos.
That is lots of different individual parallel systems that you vote in.
So if someone were to try to engage in, for example, like hacking election machines or something like that, it's really difficult to do because there's no lack of because there's no standardization across state lines.
If you engage in a national vote however, that standardization becomes necessary and as a result the system becomes easier to infiltrate.
Given that, and given the obvious harms intrinsic to fraud, you know like, lack of democratic representation and all that fun stuff, we think it's reasonable to keep the system in place that puts these states into individual silos and makes it very difficult to penetrate.
Our third our third independent point is something more cultural.
We believe that the electoral college is really tightly ingrained to the identity of the united states.
This is something personal that people feel a lot of personal pride in and this is something that matters a lot to them.
I think this is like true when you look at like monarchies too.
People often don't you know defend the monarchy by saying like, oh, this is like this really logical system that clearly works in the benefits of individuals, like of course it doesn't.
Like of course this isn't something that works well on an individual by individual basis.
But people care about the monarchy because it's something that matters to them.
To be clear, I think that the electoral college has obvious benefits that even on a pragmatic basis make it worth protecting, most notably minority rights.
But even on like a larger systemic level I think there is a cultural benefit to having this around.
That this is something that makes american democracy unique and even if it's like a weird quirk like it's something that's just like nice about our country and it makes us really happy inside.
And at the end of the day that's all that really matters.
What matters is how the people feel about it and if people like the electoral college then we'll keep it around.
Proud to oppose.