I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should subsidize investigative journalism.
I think the way I want to start this is to underline the fact that I don't think investigative journalism is bad.
Obviously, government is correct when they say it's important to have like a robust media that is capable of challenging authority structures and is capable of providing useful information.
I think the issue here that government never contends with is why subsidies are a necessary part of ensuring that we get access to those.
So three independent points.
The first is that subsidies just as a general principle are bad because they lead to rent seeking behavior.
So what I mean by rent seeking behavior is that firms when presented with government money in large sums will often change their incentives.
That is, usually a firm's you know main directive, any private company, is to provide a product that consumers will want so that they'll pay them for it and then the company will make money.
This is a good system because it ensures that companies are providing things that their actual consumers that people on the ground want.
Things like investigative journalism, things like good journalism.
We think the problem then, is that when you have governments come into the picture you wind up with a system where these firms are more likely to create things that the government wants them to create and not what consumers want.
So if the government wants lots of investigative journalism at the expense of things like say you know op ed columns or even just day to day reporting that is also valuable, we think this creates an imbalance.
Newspapers generally should reflect the will of the public and what they want to see.
We think it is problematic when the government calls the shots on what information we receive and what types of information we receive.
This leads me cleanly into my second point that government involvement creates a broken system of incentives that is likely to decrease quality investigative journalism.
So we think that when subsidies are coming directly from the government there is a necessarily political nature to them.
All this isn't necessarily going to be articulated as something as like flat out as say like trump being like if you give me bad coverage I yank your funding.
We think that in the long term that if politicians see this investigative journalism as attacking them, they are less likely to see the case for continuing to give them money.
I think one particular reason that they are likely to see the harms above the benefits is that people just sort of like have a better memory for things that they consider to be slights against them or attacks.
As a general rule of thumb then, it stands to logic that most politicians would probably in the long term view the subsidy for investigative journalism as more of a nuisance than anything else and yank the funding.
So we think then that journalists have an incentive to provide skewed coverage that is less critical of politicians in general, especially sitting governments, in an effort to maintain their funding.
Our third and final independent point though is that this is an inefficient use of public funds.
Look there is like this narrative that constantly goes around that like print journalism is dead, like the media is dying we need to save it.
I think that while more traditional forms of media like print newspapers are certainly on the decline, it's not like news is just going by the wayside.
Internet journalism, for example, is at an all time high.
Things like politico, politifact, you know even more partisan outlets like say like breitbart or daily kos or whatever.
These are doing quite well from a financial perspective.
So we don't think there's a need to actually you know give money to these organizations and lest you think that like the new york times is the only organization capable of investigative journalism, like this is false buzzfeed, politico, even breitbart have liked on some very high quality investigative journalism in recent years.
So I don't think it's necessary then to like throw money at a dying section of the media just because we're reluctant to admit that like changes in technology mean that we are going to see like changes in the financial structure of the industry.
Proud to oppose.