I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban male infant circumcision.
Our first independent point is regarding parental autonomy.
Gov correctly predicts that we will make this argument.
So we want to first start by establishing why parents have the right to make decisions on behalf of their children.
We generally recognize that autonomy is something that's important, you know this is something that in order to ensure that people have the best things happen to them in their lives as possible, we recognize that people are generally best at deciding what's best for them, and so when there's no third party harms, we allow people to make those decisions rather than try to have like some government make them for them.
Then of course the problem is that you need informed consent for this principle to actually work, that is people have to understand the implications of a particular decision.
And because children are so young and don't understand the world, we understand that as a result of that parents have to make this decision for them.
Not because the parent is the child, but because the parent understands the child's best interests in a way that the child can't really grapple with yet.
For infant circumcision, this is of course especially true, given that it is an infant and not really capable of making even like rational decisions at this point.
Given that then, we think it's important to preserve parental autonomy in situations in which this the decision can be justified.
We think broadly that there are two justifications for why you would want to have your child undergo this procedure that are perfectly legitimate, and that it is important to preserve the parents' right to have the children undergo circumcision.
First is health.
So, I think that we get this argument out of side government that's like really really insistent in in saying that you know this is just something that's bad for your health, it'll harm your sexual potency.
Like I want to clarify, this is not objectively true.
This is an ongoing scientific debate in the medical community, it is unclear what the long term effects are, but there are like legitimate arguments for both sides, like I don't want to get too in the weeds here, but like it's just notable that this is something that's fairly contentious and that both sides have merit.
At that point then, because we don't think there is like objective harm and that this is something that is debatable, it is reasonable to let parents make the decision.
We think that this is something that varies on a case by case basis, and as such parents should be able to make the decision about whether or not their child is going to you know be harmed by this procedure, based on the literature that's out there.
But secondly, and we think obviously this is the more common reason that male infant circumcision occurs, is religious in nature.
Gov tells you that because the baby is too young to be religious and to believe in religion, that you therefore just like should disregard that religious right.
The problem is that, and this is specifically where parental decision making is important, the parent understands the community the child will be brought up in.
So if this child is going to be brought up at like an orthodox jewish community, it is quite likely that that child will also grow up to be like jewish, like this is just parents understand the world you are going to be brought up in, and as such have the best access to information on what your future will look like.
This is important then, because we think if this is something that is fundamentally important to your religion, you should have the right to you know perform this, and at that point then, we think that the parent is in the best position to understand like what will happen.
Our second independent point is regulation.
So specifically we get this like tirade out of gov that's like, well we don't want doctors violating the hippocratic oath.
I think the problem is that at the point where this is considered to be systemically important to a religion, this is going to happen one way or another.
Like you are going to see just like unregulated like under the table circumcisions if you try to ban this practice.
And at that point we think that this is necessarily problematic, because that mitigates the government's capacity to regulate the industry, that is like safe medical practices, that sort of thing.
And we think the harm incurred in that sort of world, things like infection and disease incurred by like poor surgical techniques, is going to be significantly worse, and more harm will be incurred.
Proud to oppose.