I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban abortion.
So, our first independent point is that women have an infinite right to bodily autonomy, or people, in general, just have a infinite right to bodily autonomy.
We think the reason why this is true is that it is your single most fundamental right.
Government tells you that the most fundamental right an individual has is the right to life.
We'll get later into the , you know, comparisons between the fetus and the mother, but I think for the time being, it's important to recognize that bodily autonomy is fundamental to an individual, simply because we consider autonomy to be the most important right.
I think life itself is just facilitative to your ability to do as you please with that life.
This is why we, you know, don't, for example, think that a life of slavery is a good life.
Bodily autonomy is particularly important when considering autonomy in general, because it's the thing that's most fundamental to you.
So we think that, first, having things done onto your body is particularly problematic insofar as that is fundamentally an extension of your personhood, but that secondly, control over your body and what to do with it is the most fundamental way people access autonomy broadly.
Without that control over the literal vessel you use to exercise control over your life, you really don't have much of anything.
So we think that preserving that right is most important.
And, of course, insofar as the fetus, you know, exists within the woman's body, we think that's of utmost importance to ensure that that right to bodily autonomy is preserved by ensuring right to abortion because that, by extension, you know, assumes control over the body itself.
Our second independent point, though, is that we believe that the mother's rights should be considered in higher regard than those of the fetus.
We think this is true for three reasons.
First, as government hints at, we think that there is a sentience disparity, that means that the fetus is inherently less important to preserve, much in the same way that we don't think that like a vegetable really like a literal vegetable has much in the way of rights.
We don't think that an early-formed fetus, like the zygote, necessarily, you know, has any sort of proactive rights claims to them.
Government parses this out by saying that because it's hard to draw a line in the sand, we should just always take the conservative approach and never allow abortion.
I think this is problematic for two reasons: one, I think you can draw a line in the sand.
Even if generally there're like some sort of like fluctuations, like some kids will develop a little earlier, I think you can more or less ensure no rights violations upon a well-developed fetus through just like an earlyish line in the sand, like no third-trimester abortions.
But secondly, I think even a late-development fetus still has a sentience gap with the mother, that is to say that I think the mother's rights claims are still more legitimate insofar as she has more capacity to reason through situation, articulate preferences, have preferences, that sort of thing.
Secondly, we think you should prefer the mom's rights, because you have more access to information regarding the mother's preferences.
So we think, especially early on, children don't necessarily have strong articulable preferences.
Especially when they're in the womb, we don't think that those preferences can be articulated because they're not, you know, actually aware that there is even a world they exist in.
I think of when we're talking about, you know, when people have rights and that sort of thing, it's based off of our ability to have what's best for them happen to them.
We can tell what's best for the mother because we can ask her.
I don't think we can figure out if the infant's going to be happy with being born because, you know, we don't know what its preferences are.
But thirdly, we think you should prefer the fetus's rights because of parental rights.
The mother, by virtue of the fact that she will probably bring up this child and raise it, understands best what will, you know, lead to a good life for the fetus.
We think that the mother is aware that this fetus will be brought up in a like bad life that is net displeasurable, then she is best in the position to make the decision over whether or not that child should be born.
As such, proud to oppose.