I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should end daylight savings.
Three independent points: first is confusion.
I think when we look at daylight savings, we see something that a lot of people just don't understand.
I don't think people really know why we do it most of the time, I know I didn't for quite a long time.
And the reason behind it is, you know, questionable at best.
I'll get into the component about saving energy costs in a bit, but I think when people see this, they don't see something they quite understand, and it's actively a nuisance that, you know, your clock shift around a lot, that two days a year you're probably going to miss some stuff on your schedule because you forgot about daylight savings, that it, you know, creates levels of uncertainty.
It, you know, messes around with when the sun's out at certain times a day, and it's the the returns on this are unclear.
These impacts obviously are not high impact, you know, when you look at confucian, it's hot something that's usually, you know, the most significant question that a government could concern itself with.
But the other thing to consider is that daylight savings is a policy we actively engage in.
So we don't think the question is: should we do something to mitigate this, you know, small harm?
I think the question is: should we just stop willfully enacting this small harm?
This brings me to the second point that there are some really tangible things about putting the sunlight at weird hours that actually create pretty systemic issues.
First is that it hurts hurts farmers and that creates , you know, a lot of problems with the crop-growing cycle, that when the sunlight is jumping around in bizarre like, you know, hours and things like that, that affects their shipping schedule because shippers come in at particular times during the day.
That really mitigates their capacity to have a strong control over, you know, when there they're growing cycles operate.
Likewise, it's just inconvenient for others that, you know, people just don't enjoy having to, you know, come back from work in the pitch black in certain parts of this country.
Likewise, they don't like it when it's like six AM and bright out.
There are just times of day when you just don't really want , you know, the sun to be out or the sun not to be out, and I think the way that, you know, seasons generally work and our time zones work is that the sun's out at a pretty reasonable time.
Obviously, reasonable time is just defined by what we're used to, and what we're used to is the majority of the year that doesn't fall within daylight savings.
Our third independent point is that this doesn't really save us a lot of money.
So, I think at a time in our history when energy consumption was a lot more tied to, you know, when you were at the office versus when you were at home and things like that, this made a lot of sense.
But the reality is that our, you know, energy use more or less flatlines throughout the day.
A lot of the things that consume lots of energy like, say, fridges, for example, are going to consistently continue to use that energy whether, you know, we're grabbing something out of them or not.
And likewise, things like, you know, light bulbs and that sort of electricity, it doesn't really make a huge difference whether my light is turned on in my office at work or if my light at home is turned on.
Given that, I don't think that there's a significant difference then in when the sunlight's out versus when we use energy.
It's also notable that a lot of people keep the lights on when the sun is out anyway, so this really just doesn't make that big of a difference anymore.
Given that, I think even if these harms are kind of small-scale and petty, it's really, really unclear what the benefits are.
I think the confusion and unnecessariness of this policy then underscores the fact that it just isn't necessary to continue engaging in something that is disorienting if there aren't clear returns on the investment.
Proud to propose.