I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize the private sale of organs.
So our first independent point is that there is an information asymmetry inherent to this marketplace.
We think that despite the model wherein, you know, people talk to attorneys and , you know, doctors, that sort of thing and, you know, get their information from these people, there're really two problems with this.
First, the medical risks associated with organ donation are incredibly complex and difficult to understand unless you yourself are well-versed in medical issues.
At that point then, no matter how many conversations you have with the doctor, it is unlikely that the average person is going to really comprehensively understand what they're getting into and the enormous number of health risks associated with organ donation.
Secondly, we think, and this is particularly intrinsic to the process of selling one's organs, we think that people are quite likely attorneys, doctors, etcetera, to have their perception of the issue colored by finance.
A lot of these types of markets often see , take the pharmaceutical industry, for example, doctors give sort of flowery, unrealistic descriptions of the medical consequences of a particular course of action because they are, you know, often receiving payments or at least patronage from the companies associated with the procedure.
Insofar as it is quite likely that a private market for organs would result in some degree of patronage and some degree of, you know, individual firms specializing in this, it is almost certain that there will be financial incentives to encourage people to engage in organ donation for profit when there are these financial motives behind it.
Our second independent point is that this is necessarily coercive, specifically to poor people.
Even if you adopt fixed prices, it is exceptionally likely that you are going to develop a marketplace that is largely populated by, you know, rich buyers and poor donors.
This is because either you set the price crazy low, in which case just like no one will sell because why would you sell an organ for a small amount of money, or you set it really high, like you would expect to, in which case the first people that are going to line up are people that are extremely poor and in need of the cash.
This is a problem not just for the reasons I pointed out earlier with the information asymmetries, which are obviously exacerbated by people who are less likely to have like a college education, but it's also problematic because it ensures that one group of the population is literally kept healthy at the expense of another.
Cyclical poverty is pernicious in our society.
Things like education access mean that people who are born poor are likely to stay poor.
We think then that it's an obligation of the government to mitigate the ways in which cyclical poverty is further entrenched into our society, and if this literal healthcare disparity, that is ensuring that poor people can sell off portions of their bodies in ways that are harmful to their individual health in order to preserve the health of those who are wealthy, we think that cyclical poverty becomes exponentially more severe.
Our third independent point is that commodification of bodies is bad.
So we think that, generally speaking, when you look at something like the sale private sale of organs, you are essentially putting a price tag on the human body, that you are associating one's own being with money.
This we think is problematic in and of itself.
We think that it is not only morally problematic for one to do this, but we think that it is socially problematic insofar as it normalizes the notion that individuals can be purchased and that pieces of them are for sale.
We think this would drive problematic attitudes, particularly towards the impoverished individuals who would largely make up the majority of the sellers in this market, and we would generally think that it normalizes the notion that people are pieces that can be bought and sold.
Proud to oppose.