I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abandon the insanity plea defense.
What we mean by this is that we would essentially just, you know, write this off the law books as something that can be used in a court of law as a means for not being, you know, punished for any specific crime.
We would still say that like, you know, insanity pleas can factor into specific treatment plans that would be factored into a prison sentence.
So, you know, obviously we can have discussions within the criminal proceedings about whether or not an inmate needs mental health services when entering prison on basis of a mental illness, but we simply wouldn't use it as a basis by which to absolve guilt under the law.
So three independent points then.
The first is that just, you know, this is something that has been abused often.
, you know, there are obviously instances of this being used in a way that is, you know, disingenuous, that is that is, fake to an extent, and it's difficult to verify.
So there is obviously ripe space for abuse within the system.
We think obviously that that's problematic, that impunity is a is a bad thing because it demonstrates a contempt for the law, but also an incapacity of the state to properly enforce its laws.
Our second independent point is that the fact that somebody is suffering a mental illness doesn't make them not guilty.
So even if you do assume that this isn't an instance of abuse, I still think that there is just a principled objection to allowing people to , you know, escape punishment on the basis of a condition.
The thing is that we don't really think about like criminal justice in terms of , you know, whether or not they meant the crime.
What we care about is the impact that it had on, you know, the victims.
With a robbery, we don't care really why they rob the store.
What matters is that they rob the store and that, you know, people's property was damaged and that they suffered for that, and that doesn't change based on, you know, the mental illnesses or mental conditions of the the perpetrator.
Given that, I think that our our sentencing and our determinations of guilt should always just be based on what the impact of the crime was to that extent.
, you know, the the old saying of like, you know, ignorance of the law does not make you, you know, not guilty.
This is something that applies no matter what and, to be principally consistent, this shouldn't be determined based on , you know, the mental fortitude of the individual.
So, our third independent point then is that this excludes other important functions of the criminal justice system, things like rehabilitation, things like retribution, you know, these these these principles of the system that are really, really important to our our conception of criminal justice.
So, with regards to rehabilitation, I think this is particularly important is that we don't want, especially people who have, you know, have a criminal record now and are suffering a mental illness, we don't want them to, you know, escape the system essentially.
We want the capacity to ensure that they, you know, are doing well, that we have a tight control over them, because if these people have committed crimes, that means they pose some sort of danger to other people in society.
Given that, we we need the the capacity to incarcerate them in order to ensure that their treatment occurs in a supervised setting where there is minimal interference with the day-to-day lives of other people in society.
But in regards to retribution, I think this is something that people hold in particularly high regard by virtue of the fact that people do suffer from crimes.
Again, this is, you know, the impact-oriented justification for why we even arrest people in the first place.
There there is a certain peace of mind associated with knowing that someone that inflicted harm on you is is now paying for that that misdeed.
And I think that doesn't change based on, you know, whether or not the individual has a mental illness, and that we should remain principally consistent.
Proud to propose.