I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should guarantee the right to internet access.
Our first independent point is that quite simply policies should not be construed as rights.
We think this is true for three reasons.
So but first I just want to explain what I mean by this, which is essentially just that a policy like you know building like ISP networks and connecting people to the internet is distinct from something that we consider a right in the abstract, like something that is fundamental to human beings like say your right to assembly or your your right to free speech.
Government never really draws out this link but this is the difference between actual rights and facilitative rights, that is facilitative rights being things that facilitate your access to the more fundamental rights.
We think there are three reasons why you shouldn't codify these things into actual like constitutional rights or whatever you're governing documents are.
The first is that from a principle perspective, there has to be some sort of delineation between them.
We think there's always going to be ranking of different types of rights and as such you know things that are more fundamental than others, so we think that there's going to be like for example free speech itself or freedom of assembly itself is more important than at the facilitating aspect that is like internet access.
But the problem is that like rights don't usually work that way.
If it's in the constitution, it's inalienable.
So at that point then we think that there is a principled objection to putting these things at the same level.
Secondly, we think the conflicts that arise when you have to make decisions between these rights are often messy and would become nonsensical.
So oftentimes when we talk about rights, it's in the ways in which these rights conflict with one another.
So for example rights about free speech are often weighed against like rights to safety for example and like radicalization of groups through certain types of speech or like harm that's generated through certain types of speech because like psychological issues with hate speech that sort of thing.
The problem is that when you're weighing a right against a policy, like it usually means that like you have this very messy and bizarre form of discourse where you're weighing like say your like right to healthcare because the question is whether you're going to fund a hospital or an net system against your right to like internet access.
But if internet access is codified, then you have to prioritize that and at that point then we think that there is fundamentally like messy conflict.
This brings me to third issue which is that prioritization, that is to say that necessarily internet access isn't always going to be our top priority.
Sometimes there are perfectly legitimate reasons why an individual might want to have say like a or why an individual community might want some other amenity like a fire station or whatever instead of internet access but we convict codifying that as a right like in your constitution creates a system where you can't make those subjective decisions on prioritization based on what individual communities want rather there's like a legal basis under which you have to provide this thing and these budgets aren't always zero sum, meaning that it's necessarily coming at the expense of something else.
So our second independent point regards radicalization and that is to say that there is like this legitimate basis for just restricting rights to internet access anyway.
We think that a lot of online communities particularly like ultra far-right communities result in the political radicalization of individuals.
We don't even mean like isis right like isis is going to keep existing no matter what because they know how to use like underground chat platforms and that sort of thing.
We're talking about like your breitbarts and what not and like your like far far alt-right stuff.
We think the internet access itself, that is like access to everything equitably, is unjust insofar as it insists that there is like no such thing as objective truth.
But I think specifically institutions that expel hate speech should specifically talked in ways that like disparage minorities and create then measurable harms for the outside world by changing the political language there is justification restricting these types of things.
Of course when you move farther away from that when you go to something like say isis I think you get even more clear cut examples of when restricting access to this type of information is wholly justified and as such there isn't just like this infinite right to internet access.
Proud to oppose.