I'm proud to support the motion that we should subsidize massive online courses.
So our first independent point is that education itself is a right and this insurers that we are going to essentially allow more people to access that right.
We think education is a right because it is facilitative to other more fundamental rights, three in particular: first is speech.
We think that your ability to speak freely on issues that you know matter to you and express your opinion requires you to have a baseline of information regarding the issue.
So, if I want to you know exercise my right to free speech on say taxes or something like that, I have to understand the topic pretty well in order to formulate an opinion that best reflects what you know is best for me and what represents my best interests.
We think that because that right to free speech is so fundamentally important in a democracy and just and society in general, it's important that people have access to the information necessary to formulate those opinions.
Secondly, is representation.
We think that in a democratic society especially, it's important to understand issues in order to be able to communicate your needs and desires to your elected representatives.
We think that fundamentally, a democracy cannot work unless there is a level of communication between the represented and the representers, and without access to information on the modern issues and ability to you know sort of contextualize that to determine what your needs and desires are you don't have a functioning democracy.
Education therefore is necessary to exercise in all of that.
And thirdly is access to money and sort of the opportunity to get higher employment, and then by extension the things that that buys.
So health care for example is a good example of why we need access to money, and we think that sort of higher paying jobs, and things that create a sustainable living are often impossible to get in a functioning society without any sort of like a proper education compared to the rest of your society.
At that point then we think that these large online classes, even if they don't have the rigor of say like harvard university, are still going to be much better than the status quo in ensuring that large amounts of people have access to some amount of education, and have the opportunity to receive that information that's necessary for them to secure their rights.
Our second independent point is that this creates a more competitive educational market.
So we think that a lot of the times, a lot of really basic things that would be easy to teach are still charged exorbitantly for at private and even public universities, on the basis that there isn't much else of a place to get them.
Like things like khan academy and what not exist, but these aren't as like open and like as large as sort of what we're going for here.
And usually they charge like some sort of subscription fee.
So we think then that it's important to create a market that is more competitive, by essentially saying: " look, baseline stuff like econ one o one, you can get that for free through like the large government course. "
At that point then we think that colleges are incentivized to essentially create a landscape where they more go in depth because they have to remain competitive with the free product that's now being offered.
That in turn creates an educational system that is of a higher quality.
Our third independent point is that that's a more effective use of subsidies for the government.
So we think that in the status quo a lot of where government subsidies for education go, go towards like public universities and things like that.
We think though that these are often arbitrary, because the people making decisions in the government don't understand the educational system and the complexities of a university or the complexities of the courses themselves, to understand whether or not what they're subsidizing is actually effective.
We think with these types of courses though - a, because they're so basic but b, because they're done on a sort of like online large scale basis, where there's lots of data and metrics readily available, it's easier for the government to measure whether or not they're actually doing a good job with what they're subsidizing.
But furthermore, we think that by subsidizing something that's broad open and accessible for lots of people, you have a more direct impact on the poorest people in society, and as such you're able to do more good with each individual dollar spent on those subsidies.
Proud to propose.