I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban the olympics.
Obviously in terms of the model we're just saying that we shouldn't hold them anymore.
So two independent points.
First is that the olympics often hurt the host nation.
This is true both financially and politically.
The olympics are very expensive to run and usually can involve the construction of lost of new stadiums and venues that can actually host a competition this massive but from a political perspective, they're also quite damaging.
Usually this involves this results especially in recent years in a division in the government between people you know who would rather see this money spent on you know social programs or things like that.
For example look to you know rio olympics where there was actual protests involved in the construction of these new buildings.
So there's a lot of political capital expended by the host nation that often results in some degree of political instability.
Obviously this is something that the host nation consents into.
The you know they agreed to host the olympics but we would say that the the problem here is that often the olympics are pushed off to you know countries in the developing world that are not actually capable of withstanding this type of pressure.
This is because a lot of developed countries also recognize that this isn't something that's particularly desirable to host and the problem here is that while there might be you know benefits to the nations that are hosting they you know obviously get a lot of capacity to you know engage in sports and have this sort of like international camaraderie.
That tangible impact on the host country is something that most likely outweighs this.
It's really severely crippling and in recent years especially it's had quite detrimental impacts and this is at times even come to the expense of the competitors look to russia, as an example, where the you know the housing was pretty ramshackle and run down to the extent that it actually posed a health hazard.
Rio had a very similar situation and while there certainly exceptions to this rule, china for example, held a very good olympics that had minimal impact on its economy.
These are the exception not the rule by any means and at that point than it seems significantly more reasonable to simply you know disband this if it's causing that harm.
Our second independent point though is that even from a competitor standpoint this is a very confrontational event that most likely causes more animosity than it does you know camaraderie.
I think the general op standpoint in this round is going to be something to the effect of well this you know causes a lot of you know international camaraderie through the fact that you know you're you're coming together on an international stage and you're having you know these sporting events where at the end everybody comes together.
I don't think that's entirely true though.
I think a lot of animosity and a lot of rivalry plays out on this field.
There are several high profile examples.
Conflicts between israel and palestine for example, have played out on the olympic stage.
Russia as well.
These are really significant events and at the point where the olympic can become a significant boiling pot essentially for these conflicts, it doesn't seem like there's a lot of you know positive feelings going around at this competition and on net again this is probably something that brings you know more harm than good and at that point it's reasonable to disband it.
Proud to propose.