I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban the use of the term organic on food labels.
So the first independent point I've got here is that the alternative to this labeling system and the regulation of it is just an unregulated dog whistle.
As, you know, food labels have proven, you can walk around a grocery and see this grocery store and see this firsthand, there is any number of relatively meaningless terms you can use to convey vague ideas like naturalness, organicness, lack of pesticides, that sort of thing.
We think the problem then is that with a term like " organic ", the status quo has some degree of regulation.
Even if those regulations are inconsistent and at times arbitrary, we think it is preferable to a completely unregulated landscape, because all of the information issues that government discussed become even more severe.
There's no standardized expectation of what the term means in a world where it's unregulated.
So we think if you ban the use of the term " organic ", the industry just shifts to some other dog whistle term that is now unregulated.
Even if government wants to be like, " oh, well then we'll start regulating that term, " we don't think there's any meaningful difference between like this and the status quo then.
So we think realistically what happens is that you just wind up with this worse market, because they switch to " natural " or " wholesome " or some other like just like like ambiguous label for the term and as such , you know, the marketplace looks worse.
Our second independent point is autonomy.
So we believe that people do you have a proactive right to choose what they want, but we think that in order for people to meaningfully exercise their autonomy, they need access to proper information about the choice that they are making.
We think the problem with a lot of government's advocacy is the assumption that a lack of like universal understanding of the meaning of the term " organic " means that they don't have access to information.
I don't think this is true though, because I think there is some central expectation of what " organic " means.
It does mean that there are certain chemicals not used and even if other chemicals are used, that is still some degree of information that you now have about the product that you otherwise would not have.
As such, we think that this allows people to make more-informed decisions about what they're consuming and as such, we think that this makes for a fairer and more equitable marketplace.
Our third and final point is that organic food is simply healthier.
So, I want to point this out, and I want to underline this really clearly.
Government seems to repeatedly assert, without much warranting, that organic food is no different from regular food.
This is not true.
Many of the chemicals that have been ruled as something that doesn't work for organic are, while ruled safe by the FDA for consumption, still not necessarily the best things to put in your body.
There are lots of chemicals used as pesticides, used as, you know, growth formulas, any number of uses for chemicals in agribusiness that are just bad for your body in the long term.
There are proven links between cancer and various other illnesses, like liver disease, between a lot of these chemicals and long-term consumption, and as such, we think it's better for the human body when they're not consumed.
Then becomes important, because we think that organic allows people to see in the supermarket when you can find the foods that don't have these chemicals.
I think this is particularly important because even though someone who's really well-read and up-to-date on like organic food and like good farming practices and things like that, might be fully aware of what does and doesn't have these noxious chemicals, I don't think you can reasonably expect the average person to know that.
As such, you need organic labels in order to encourage people to make healthier decisions which, in turn, means better lives for those individuals, but also, you know, social externalities, like decreased healthcare costs.
Proud to oppose.