I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should subsidize public transportation.
Our first independent point is that these subsidies come at the expense of the taxes paid by non-users of public transportation and that this is fundamentally unfair.
So we think that people generally shouldn't be asked to contribute money to governments for services that they won't utilize.
We think that this is: a, true because people have an actual property right to their, you know, their money.
They, you know, worked for this.
This is something that they individually earn, and as such, we think it is unreasonable for the government to spend that money on something that doesn't benefit that individual.
We think that, of course, you know, people who don't use public transportation obviously aren't benefiting as much as the people who do use it, and as such, we think it is unjust for them to have to pay into this.
Of course, the counterfactual that we prefer is simply public transportation, where you just have higher fares, so that the actual costs associated with running that public transportation are absorbed by the people who are using that public transportation.
We think this is especially problematic, because we think that the people who don't use public transportation are the people that don't have access to it.
So, for example, most cities haven't built robust transportation infrastructure in poorer neighborhoods.
As such then, because the riders of the subway and things like that will wind up being disproportionately richer due to the just geographic distribution of access to these lines, we think that what realistically happens is that poorer people's taxes wind up subsidizing richer people's access to the subway.
And as such, we think this is, you know, essentially a regressive policy that disproportionately harms poorer individuals.
Our second independent point is that we think a private system is better.
So, specifically, we think this is true because the private sector is more efficient.
Incentives to compete with other firms incentivize individual firms in an open marketplace to essentially provide the best goods for the cheapest costs.
As such, we think that a publicly owned transportation system is inherently inferior, because we think that generally it will: a, be, you know, inefficient because it's not receiving any sort of, you know, competition, but b, that it'll be bad at proxying the wills of people, because it's not looking to market forces to determine its actions.
As such, we think these subsidies are essentially a waste, that it would be better spent, you know, allowing essentially a private industry to simply come in, take over these rail lines, and conduct their own business.
Our third and final independent point is that we think that these extra subsidies aren't actually going to help develop the infrastructure in any meaningful way, rather we think it's a tipping point for wasteful spending.
So, most of the baseline things that we care about, like having trains that can run properly or getting the buses out of the garage, those expenditures have to be made no matter what.
That's never a decision and as such, when you're budgeting out what they're going to do, these baseline costs are always made first.
As such, there's sort of a second order of priority when it comes to these decisions about how you're going to spend your money.
We think this second order though is wasteful.
So, in boston, for example, this is the example that gov runs with, there's a robust pension system for MBTA drivers that's currently bankrupting the transportation system.
We think that these types of obligations, though, that are generated to the workers, things like pension systems and retirement funds, they're only even guaranteed, in the first place, because of subsidies and because of, you know, actual taxpayer money coming into the system to subsidize it.
We think these are poor uses of money, a: because they disproportionately accrue to a small number of people, and b: because unlike the broader transportation network, there aren't even externalities generated to the public itself.
As such when we think that because these are fundamentally poor uses of revenue, this is the actual impact that will accrue from subsidies as opposed to just like normal fare-based tolls, and we don't think that this is a reasonable policy to pursue.
Proud to oppose.