I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban herbal medicine.
First I just wanna offer sort of a working definition of what herbal medicine constitutes.
We would say that this does not constitute anything that's officially recognized by the FDA, even if it you know employees certain herbs in it.
We would just say that this is you know the sort of thing that isn't actually recognized as a actual medicine by any sort of you know governing body.
These are things like you know ground-up roots and what not that you put in your tea and it's supposed to cure cancer.
Now, this isn't by any means you know sanctioned by the FDA.
So with that, two independent points: first is that broadly speaking, we want to establish that the standards for when we can engage in a ban are one of two things: either one is objective harm inflicted upon the individual.
This, for example, is you know why we mandate that people go to school.
Because it's something that even if it's a restriction on your autonomy it is still something that objectively benefits you.
But second is basically information asymmetries.
That people cannot meaningfully consent into an action if they are you know deliberately being misled by the industry or if they just generally are not properly informed in the decision.
So my first independent point is information asymmetries.
That meaningful consent doesn't apply when we're talking about usage of herbal medicine because there is a specific information asymmetry between the consumer and the seller.
On this want to know that you know medicine is something that is really really complicated.
People but a pharmaceutical school for years to get even like a passing understanding of how some of this medicine works.
It's really important then, to recognize that the average consumer isn't in a position to actually understand what medicine they need for what purposes.
This is why we generally require that people go through a doctor to get a prescription before they take medicine, so that they actually have someone working with them that understands this stuff, so that they can you know make the right decisions, get the right treatment and so on.
The problem with herbal medicine of course is that you don't go to a doctor.
You don't go to a professional, usually you know herbal medicine practitioners are not licensed by any way shape or form, even if they are someone that isn't just out to make a quick buck and does genuinely believe in the healing properties of this, they're still by no means an expert.
This is a problem then because people don't actually have a capacity to meaningfully consent to such a complex decision if they don't understand what's going on in the first place.
They haven't been properly informed.
We don't think that we should allow this to continue occurring, thus a ban is justified.
Our second independent point though is the objective harm that is intrinsic to herbal medicine.
I think this plays out in two ways: the first is quite simple.
That when it does absolutely nothing, people just don't seek a cure.
You know your your taking, whatever, like ground-up route and that's all well and fine, and maybe it's even kind of healthy in terms of improving your diet, but this isn't something that actually constitutes a cure for whatever illness you have.
That's a problem of course because that means then that you are significantly more likely to suffer and potentially even die by virtue of your illness, if you aren't seeking the proper care and if you aren't actually being treated for your illness.
But the second I think is a lot more important in terms of the way that actually harms people, and that's improper use.
Herbal medicine can really harm you in two ways: the first is that certain types of herbs and things like that, that are put in combination with one another, can create effects that aren't seen by regulators.
So generally speaking, if I just have some ground-up root, I'm probably going to be fine because whatever regulatory food agency determined that that route was okay for consumption and sale in the first place, will probably be fine with me grinding up and taking it even if I tell myself it's medicine.
The problem is in the combinations.
But secondly we also think that like when people combine these with actual medicine, unwittingly thinking they can have the best of both worlds, there is a very high risk for harmful side effects.
Given this then, because they don't have because we don't have much capacity to regulate this from a medicinal standpoint, because the FDA won't recognize these as actual medicines, then at that point we have to we have to engage in a ban.
Because we have to ensure that these did that these substances aren't being used improperly and aren't being used in ways that harm the individuals that consume them.
Proud to propose.