I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban male infant circumcision.
Three independent points.
The first is just the health harms that are intrinsic to this procedure.
I think that plays out in two ways.
First is during the procedure, there's a high likelihood for you know a botched surgery in a way that you know really has a harmful effect on the kid just in the moment.
I think when compared to other types of surgery, this both is you know very high-risk in terms of you know the likelihood of damaging an organ that's you know pretty pretty vital to the kid's survival.
But secondly is really you know low-reward.
This isn't something you you know triple-bypass heart surgery is high risk of course but we're willing to engage in it because there's a really vital purpose to doing this.
I think with circumcision you're talking about a purpose that's a lot less vital.
This isn't something that you know necessarily the trade-off is so crystal clear that it is worth you know subjecting the child to such an extreme risk.
But beyond the things that can happen just during the procedure, there's long-term harms too you know post-circumcision children are a lot more susceptible to infection, are a lot more susceptible to you know all sorts of problems that are intrinsic that you know having a part of your body removed and particularly having a part of your body removed that is located in an area that gets a high amount of blood flow.
This is you know something that's medically dangerous and you're putting the child through a significant amount of medical risk for an unclear return.
Our second independent point is that this is a industry or at least a procedure that's very tough to regulate.
This generally doesn't happen in hospitals, this is something that often happens you know in in much less professional settings because it's so associated with religious tradition and as a result because it has you know those religious undertones, there's a lot more aversion to you know subjecting this the same you know rigorous regulation that is applied to you know the standard medical fields and standard medical procedures.
So we think generally speaking, the opposition to this argument is always going to come out of the argument that oh well you know if it continues to happen on the black market it'll be impossible to regulate.
I think the problem with that though is that the regulation in the status quo is quite thin and the comparative value therefore you know the the risk we're talking about in terms of you know regulation harms is quite minimal because I don't think that's happening in the status quo.
Our third independent point and I think this is really the most important thing that you want to talk about here is the inability of the child, that is the recipient of the procedure, to actually provide meaningful consent.
So when we talk about medical procedures, I think we quite often think of this as you know there is a certain level of risk involved in the procedure but we allow you know individuals to make decisions based on you know their capacity to reason their way through the thinking and say you know what my you know breast enhancement surgery you know has a certain level of risk associated with it but it's worth the return to me so I'll go forward with it.
With parents or with small children rather, we allow parents to make these decisions for them and I think largely the reason we do that is because most of the procedures when you're so young are things that are you know pretty obviously beneficial you know whether or not you get vaccinated for example you clearly this is something that you want the child to go through because it's something that is very important to ensuring their long term health.
With circumcision however again this this reward is a lot less clear and I think at that point we're a lot less likely letting the parent proxy-out the decision for them for the child that is because the returns are less clear.
I think this is something that at its core is quite debatable but the kid doesn't get to make the decision here you know by virtue of being an infant so it therefore doesn't seem to make that much sense to allow the parent to make this unclear decision on behalf of somebody else.
Even if they're the best proxy for the kids will, I think the better solution is just to you know stay the course and not do anything at all.
Proud to propose.