I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that the we should protect the right to internet access.
So, two independent points: first is that rights are something that are inherent.
So, I think this is really important, to distinguish the difference between what constitutes a right and what constitutes just like something that's good, because there obviously is a difference.
We wouldn't use the term " right " if there wasn't a difference.
A right is when something is like intrinsic value.
This is sort of true for two reasons, is that one is when we consider something to be a right, like free speech, like life, like autonomy, it's because we hold it above lots of other things, that it is a value in and of itself.
So I don't think that like policy should be considered a right unless they are absolutely one hundred percent tied to the exercise of that value.
So, I think a good example of like what is a policy that constitutes a right is like voting rights, because that is one hundred percent tied to your right to free speech, and you cannot exercise any sort of influence on your government without that franchise.
Because it's the only reason your democracy cares about you in the first place.
So, you can exercise these rights that gov tells you about, like free speech and information elsewhere.
Things like TV give you information about what's going on in the world.
Conversations with other people tell you about what's going on in the world.
Libraries tell you about what's going on in the world.
You have this capacity to engage in information spreading.
But I think, and this is like the thing that I think is almost scarily intuitive, is that obviously you could have exercised these rights before like the early nineties, right?
Like the the the meat of gov's argument seems to be like, " oh, well they help you exercise it better ", but I don't think people were having their constitutional rights infringed upon back then.
Like you still had the capacity to exercise this right those rights, so I don't think the internet is inherent to that right.
But the second thing that I want to establish, under like what constitutes a right, is that it should never be a policy in general that isn't inherent, because the way we treat rights is a thing that we hold pretty much above all else.
Like rights can really only clash with other rights and that's a problem, and this brings me into my second point, which is that there are reasons you would want to restrict internet access and at that point, it shouldn't be considered a right.
Because the reality is that if there was ever a reason to consider that something should be restricted for any reason that isn't just based on its conflict with another inherent right, the thing itself is not a right.
So a couple examples of why we would restrict internet access: first is radicalization.
So there's like channels like back channels, particularly on the internet, where people will talk about like radical ideas like, for example, like isis's back channels, white nationalist back channels, like there are tons of examples of just like really radical things that people talk about that result in violence and suffering, and we think it is reasonable to restrict those types of channels.
Second is money.
So just like internet access is really, really expensive to provide in some places, and we think it would be bad for governments if you had positive obligation to provide it to everyone in your country.
Third is black market.
So things like silk road, for example, are like ways in which the internet can allow people to supersede governmental authority.
That is a problem because it increases like sort of just like lack of adherence to general laws, and we think that's a good principal to hold up.
Fourth is that, just like age is a thing, like you restrict access to like certain websites for children.
For example, like you tell like small children that they can't like view pornography online because that's just like a thing that is reasonable to restrict small children from.
So I think that there's a reason to restrict the policy, the policy itself shouldn't be considered a right.
Because this isn't something that like if you restrict internet, people will die.
I don't think it's something where like that's the conflict, and at that point, I don't think it's a right, I think it's just a policy and we shouldn't hold it in such high constitutional regard.