I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize insider trading.
Three independent points: first is that legalization of insider trading makes for better markets.
I think the status quo constitutes a lot of guessing.
At least in terms of the stock market.
And the reason for this is quite simple that when you, you know, don't have the ability to use insider information you really don't know much about what's going on at the company.
You're being told: " I'm gonna make a bet based on what I think might happen to the company. "
And that's inherently pretty risky.
Generally speaking, if we were talking about you know people betting on their own money, I think that'd be a lot more reasonable to say.
But the problem is that they're not betting with their own money most of the time.
These are you know people's retirement funds were talking about.
Their life savings often.
This is something that has a really profound impact on the economy at large and if entire portfolios come crashing down because of a lack of knowledge on what was about to happen at the firm, that's a serious harm on a lot of people.
This is really important then to ensure that these markets operate in a way that minimizes risk.
And I think having insider trading, having knowledge of the way that a specific industry is working and allowing people to make decisions based on the most knowledge possible is always going to insure more stability within that market.
Our second independent point is that legalization of insider trading leads to more transparency.
The reason for this is essentially that in the status quo people try to engage in insider trading anyway.
That they find out information about what's happening in a firm and they try to act on that information, because this is you know just reasonable.
This is just what people do when they have an opportunity to make money they'll take that opportunity.
But in the status quo, because it is illegal, there are serious serious efforts to mask that knowledge.
I think that comes with its own harms though.
That when your you know top priority, to an extent, is to avoid prison by masking the fact that you engage in insider trading, you will be less transparent as a firm.
You will be less open about the rationale for why you make specific decisions.
That's a problem.
That means that our market is essentially operating on lies, is operating on you know faulty assumptions and the ways in which are really this entire industry works becomes a lot more obscured.
This is an issue.
We want to understand what's going on behind closed doors in this industry to mitigate the likelihood of abuse.
We want to mitigate any type of abuse really that happens within the financial industry, and I don't think encouraging people to be you know shady because of basically just our gut reaction to fairness, is a is a strong justification for why we should you know be less knowledgeable about what's going on.
The last thing I want to touch on, our third independent point is that fairness question.
Generally speaking it seems that the opposition to insider trading is largely rooted in this fairness claim.
That it's unfair when people have a disproportionately larger amount of information about specific deal and that this gives some people a leg up.
I think that this reasoning is inherently flawed though because for starters everyone always has a leg up, for some reason or another.
You know whether or not your firm just has a lot of money gives you a leg up.
Whether or not your experience in the industry gives you a leg up.
There are a lot of reasons why it individual might have an advantage.
I think the the tipping point in whether or not we take steps to mitigate that advantage is whether or not that advantage is unfairly earned.
I don't know where you set that bright line but it seems like we have a lot of advantages in the status quo, like being born wealthy, that are lot less fair than working to achieve insider information.
Like, insider information means you worked for the company, you have an intricate understanding of its operations, like this is a skill essentially.
I think this has a much stronger merit claim that a lot of other ways in which people get advantages, and at that point I think it's a lot more reasonable then to allow people to profit off of the knowledge or skill in the way that we do in other industries.
Proud to propose.