I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should tighten gun control laws.
Two independent points, but first just a quick clarification.
In terms of tightening gun control laws, we're obviously approaching this from principle, as is consistent with the info slide, but we would say that we are willing to defend any sort of gun control law, anything from an assault weapons ban to a handgun ban to just, you know, longer waiting periods for obtaining guns, anything that makes it tougher to obtain a firearm is something that we would be willing to defend.
On the first independent point then, we'd say that firearms pose extreme physical danger, not just to people around the owners but also to the owners themselves, and that this physical danger warrants restrictions.
So, what are some of the dangers posed here?
One is just the availability of lethal force, that people are more willing to resort to extreme lethal force when the option is available.
For example, you know, if someone is , you know, in like a like a street fight or even defending their own home, something that, you know, could be resolved with like just punching or even like a like a knife fight or something like that, if someone is so intent on engaging in violence, can quickly be escalated by the fact that they have the availability of a more lethal weapon.
That in turn just makes conflict more likely, because it lowers the barrier to engaging in conflict.
I am much more comfortable fighting someone if I have a weapon that I know will, you know, make my chance of, you know, winning that conflict a lot higher.
But second, and closely related to this, is that capacity to do more damage.
I think a good example of this is, you know, the use of assault rifles in school shootings where even if a person is just absolutely intent on engaging in violence and it's going to happen no matter what, we want to, you know, raise the barriers to getting a gun so that the amount of damage that is done, it's just lesser.
Something like columbine, if conducted with a knife, will just basically wreak less havoc, create less suffering, because the weapon itself is something that is less effective at creating damage.
But thirdly, then, is the lack of proper training.
So we think that guns are quite complicated, to say the least.
This is something that you really have to know and understand to use, but a lot of people just simply don't.
People, you know, especially the romanticization of guns in media has led people to think that these are very simple things that, you know, you basically just press the button and the bullet comes out and you're done.
They're much more complicated than that, and it requires a lot of training and expertise to properly use a gun.
So we think that even restrictions that, you know, make you have to go through more to get a gun license, go through classes or more rigorous training, these are things that really ensure that people who use guns have a good understanding of them so that they are less likely to cause accidental harm to themselves or others.
Our second independent point is that there just often isn't a good use for these guns and that they are often purchased for reasons that are that are that are improper.
So I think one particularly good example of this is home defense, where often guns will actually cause more problems than solutions in defending one's home.
You know, specifically with assault rifles, there are lots of examples of people, you know, shooting people in neighboring apartments because they didn't understand that if they, you know, just fire off an assault weapon, it will cause a lot of havoc in surrounding areas.
But even with smaller guns, like handguns, this can often escalate the situation to one where an home intruder has no choice but to fight for their life, and the situation escalated quite quickly can result in fatalities.
We think that because these guns are so often utilized in improper scenarios, if you increase the barriers to getting a gun, you will see less improper usage essentially, that it will be seen as something that is, you know, less commonplace, less useful for everyday situations and as such, much less likely to be used in those situations.
Proud to propose.