I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize inside trading.
Our first independent point is that this is principally unfair.
So we think that when we look at something like insider trading what we see is a financial market that is largely populated by people who are in essence insiders.
People who have an intricate understanding of the industries, people who are themselves even closely affiliated with the corporations that they might invest in.
We see this as problematic on the basis that principally we think that the market, by virtue of being a market, should be as fair and as open as possible.
Necessarily we think that something like property rights for example entail that individuals have the right to buy products as they see, have access to proper information, and we think that when there is an imbalance in access to that information, that is something that principally that is problematic for you know the fairness of that marketplace and the evenness of that marketplace.
Given that then we think that it is justified to ban insider trading insofar as it mitigates the un-even nature of the marketplace.
Government tells you that insider trading will probably happen no matter what, because it's super easy to get around these laws.
We think that this is something that happens on the margins though.
That is that we can essentially, by instituting a ban, keep people from engaging in the most egregious instances of insider trading, and as such, again on the margins, you know mitigate the unfairness and unlevelness of the financial market.
Our second independent point is the insider trading facilitates aggregation of wealth to people who are already wealthy.
So specifically what we think then is that this is more of a utilitarian harm.
Recognize that the stock market is competitive in nature.
That you know people are making purchases and selling things based on you know what they see as their individual gains, but with more or less no exception, this is always going to come at the expense of another individual.
You know if you make a really good purchase you're taking that really good stock away from somebody else, somebody depreciates you know that's a essentially opportunity cost that the other person's losing out on.
So these purchases in these sales are always competitive in nature and comparative.
At that point then we think that information is king.
That is information about what's going to perform well, what's not going to perform well, that sort of thing.
And the insiders, the people who have the most intricate knowledge of the industry are always going to be the people at the top.
We're talking about like CEO's, really well established investment brokers like a warren buffett types, like people that are really really in the know about what's going on.
Because they have access to the networking, the relationships to get that information.
We think then that utilization of that information allows wealth, that is like comparative success in the stock market, to accrue to the people that already have the most money.
This is a problem for two reasons: first the fairness problems articulated in the first argument, but secondly we think that it's a problem because it literally ensurers that wealth remains at the top part of the income bracket.
That is that the stock market can be a way to redistribute wealth essentially.
That individuals can you know just make smart investment decisions, that is poorer individuals, and as such profit from it.
Even if they just like own like shares and like hedge funds that make those types of decisions, they can still get money.
But we think that when you accrue more money to the top individuals by allowing them to make decisions based on their disproportionate advantage, this mitigates the ability of the stock market to redistribute wealth.
And as such we think then that it is important for the sake of insuring a lack of income inequality, that you continue to ban insider trading.
Proud to oppose.