I am proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish speed limits.
So, specifically the way that we are going to, you know, model this out is , for one, we're going to make it specific to like highways and other places where, you know, high speed is something that we're actually okay with.
Obviously, we're not going to put this on like side roads in like rural areas, but we would say that what we'll replace speed limits with is strong enforcement of anti-tailgating laws.
So what we mean by this basically is that instead of a limit on how fast you can go, we would instead enforce a limit on how close you can be to other cars.
The first argument I want to advance on this is essentially why there's no capacity to enforce both of these laws rigorously and why the tailgating laws are actually significantly more important.
So, on capacity to enforce both: this is essentially just an onerous burden on highway and traffic cops, really, to try to get both in.
You know, you need to be paying pretty good attention to your radar technology to enforce a speed limit effectively.
And likewise with enforcing tailgating laws, you have to be paying just very close visual attention to the proximity between cars.
And this is a problem.
I mean this is a serious issue in terms of , you know, being able to enforce both.
So you you have to choose one or the other, and as you can see in terms of the way that highway enforcement in the united states works right now, clearly the speed limits are preferred.
I think the reason then why it's significantly more important to enforce the tailgating laws is that this is just what determines whether or not cars are actually going to have a crash.
It's about not about speed.
Like if two cars are going ninety consistently, it doesn't matter then, because if they're far away from each other, you know, the fluctuations in their speed that will happen bit by bit aren't going to result in a crash.
What matters is the tailgating frequent on highways.
This is what drives a lot of crashes is cars that are simply getting too close to one another.
So I think then if you create a system where drivers, instead of being discouraged from going fast, are simply discouraged from being very close to one another and, of course, the fines, you know, the structural incentives work the same as they do for speeding.
Right now, you're afraid to speed because you're afraid to get a ticket.
Likewise, you'd be afraid to tailgate for fear of getting a ticket if that was the way that these laws were enforced.
So, given that the tailgating then is significantly more important to reducing traffic issues, I think this is just the better place to put your priorities.
Our second independent point is really just that drivers will self-regulate.
So, when we look at the way that speeding works, pretty much everyone breaks the speeding limit.
I think, you know, if you're in like a sixty-five, everyone goes like seventy or seventy-five.
And the reason for this is just the the best speed to be at, on a highway, is just higher than the the level that speed limits are currently at.
There's a certain level stability that comes with going a bit faster.
People are just more comfortable moving at that speed, and they do obviously have a desire to get places quicker.
So, I think when you allow people to make that decision , you know, they're not going to change significantly.
They're already breaking the speed limit with a decent amount of frequency.
But people will self-regulate properly because people getting in crashes like, that's the disincentive they have against doing something that's legitimately dangerous, right?
Like I might really, really, really want to get to where I'm going, but I also don't want to die in a car crash.
So I don't think people will really go any faster than they personally feel that they're capable of handling.
And this is the thing with speeding is that you very rarely see these accidents occur because of speeding.
It's usually because of some other factor combined with speed.
So like drunk driving, obviously, there's a lot of speeding, but that's because they're drunk.
It's not a speeding thing as much as it's just a a DUI problem.
So I think, generally speaking then, lifting the speeding laws won't have a significant effect on safe driving habits.
Proud to propose.