I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that national service in the united states should be mandatory.
What we mean by national service is mandating some sort of a public sector work, it doesn't have to be you know with the traditional sense of national service in the military, we would expand it to a more modern sense of national service, which would include working in a government agency or really just any sort of public sector work.
We probably wouldn't extend it nonprofits although I guess that's like more debatable.
So three independent points: the first is a sense of national pride that's really instilled by working you know directly for the government.
I think often there is sort of a disconnect between how we as individuals form our identity and the the country that we exist within.
Having that sense of national pride, that we identify with our country, is important.
Because it creates a sense of camaraderie amongst people that live within that country.
I think this is often you know kind of straw manned as this like really conservative like like chest thumping patriotism, when in reality it's actually something that brings people together in a way that's really important.
That shared national identity is often what makes us care about those that are less well off within our own country.
You know for people that have trouble empathizing with those that are less well off, I think one way to really compel them to care about these people that are suffering is to say: " well these are your countrymen.
These are people that share something really intrinsic with you. "
And that thing that you have in common can be a serious point in getting them to really care.
So when you then create national service, you create that sense of national identity that is much more powerful by virtue of your now stronger connection to your country, I think that goes a long way in creating that sense of empathy for people that are also in your country and might be less well off than you.
Our second independent point is that this is something that is redistributive in nature.
So when we compel people that are often wealthier, that probably wouldn't have to do this sort of work, wouldn't be compelled to work for the government, you're much more likely to see this as something that really forces people who often would not contribute much to people who are less well off, as engaging in work that is.
You know if you have someone that's really wealthy but working for the welfare office, that's important.
Because it ensures that they're doing something and it really gives back and you know gives them essentially a stake in the well being of their country and the well being of other people within their country.
They give something back in that it contributes to you know the general good.
Our third independent point is that it increases the the desirability of public sector work.
So I think one of the things that really drives the the fact that the the public sector is so much less efficient than the private sector, is simply desirability of the work.
A lot of the time people devalue the public sector as something that's inherently bureaucratic and they would never want to touch it with a ten foot pole, but they haven't actually tried working in the sectors.
And so there's a flight of particularly talented and wealthy individuals towards the private sector, that results in a gap between you know how how effective these two sectors are at actually getting things done.
But if you increase the desirability of public sector work by actually forcing people to experience it and experience you know that that the positive feeling of actually doing something that helps people on the ground, I think that will go a long way to creating a sense that the public sector work is something that's worth doing.
And that in turn means that you have a workforce of people that are acting in the interests of the general good rather than simply you know go into a private sector job at goldman sachs or whatever, looking out for number one.
Making a lot of money, and caring less about the the welfare of others.
Proud to propose.