I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish temporary employment.
By this we're specifically referring to things like temp agencies and you know other forms of employment that are explicitly based on temporary work.
We won't categorize seasonal work under this because obviously there's just no way to apply that restriction for things like farm work for example, that just can't be done on a year round basis.
We're not going to ban that.
So three independent points.
The first is that temp agency temp agency workers are subject to sub-par treatment and employment practices, so they pretty universally receive lower wages.
They very rarely receive any sort of health benefits and the reason for this fundamentally is that there's no incentive to treat tempt employees well.
Often by the time they've agreed to do the line of work they're you know locked into that line of work.
It's something that they can't really opt out of because they're there for such a short amount of time and even if they were to leave, the employer doesn't care particularly much because they're easily replaceable.
They're hired on a recurring basis.
This leads me into my second independent point that employers can a bit commit abuses much more frequently when the employees are there on a temporary basis.
The recurring nature of employment ensures that you know basically you're going to cycle people out anyway, so if someone leaves early because of abusive employment practices you can just sub them in for the next person.
The gatekeeper in this situation is supposed to be the temp agency.
They're supposed to ensure that abuses aren't committed and that they'll stop sending temps to a corporation if the employer is abusive.
The problem is that there's a financial incentive for the temp agency to not fulfill that role because the temp agency's own survival is predicated on having firms that it can you know basically work with effectively and reliably so that they can continue sending workers to locations.
So there's a power imbalance in that relationship then that generally the temp agency isn't the one with influence over the employer but the other way around and as such the temp agency is very unwilling to actually take a stand on behalf of the temp workers.
So my third independent point, and this is sort of where we coalesce into the policy, is that a ban on temp work solves for all of this.
The reason is that there isn't a structural you know basis for why agencies or specific firms can't just hire full time employees.
They hire a temp workers because it's cheaper usually.
Again there are obviously firms that you know have a specific reason why it needs to be a temp worker like seasonal work, but as I mentioned, you know those aren't what we're talking about here.
What we're talking about is basically firms that will hire temp workers just because they want temp workers that are cheaper, that are you know more expendable, things like that and the firms still have to get the jobs that are done by these temp workers done.
They have to be fulfilled.
So if you replace or if you ban the temp workers then they get replaced with full time employees almost inevitably.
Even if this means that less people actually walk through the doors we think it's better because these people are receiving better wages and better benefits but we actually do think there is an almost one to one ratio.
The reason being is that essentially all these people are under-employed in the status quo when they're working for temp agencies.
When you place them in full time positions, even if it's one person taking the space of a job that a bunch of people would have done over a longer period of time, you know the amount of benefits accrued essentially in terms of wages even if they weren't better paid, even if they didn't receive better benefits, would be equal because it's just parsed out over the longer time period but on top of that then the better benefits and better wages ensure that essentially you know net utility is higher, that the employees are receiving you know better treatment and as such our workforce is treated better.
Proud to propose.