I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion, that we should ban hydraulic fracturing.
I think the model here is pretty simple, just that you know, basically at the federal level, we would just institute a ban on this particular practice in looking for, you know, natural gas.
Essentially, that is what we're getting here, it is very rarely anything other than natural gas that is then piped along to refining plants, and you know redistributed for energy purposes.
So, three independent points under this: first, water pollution, second, air pollution, and third earthquakes.
But first, I want to set a standard for when a ban is justified by a government, because I think that this is important to enumerate: we justify bans by externalities, that, generally speaking, free action is a good thing in a liberal democracy, but we limit action by individual people or corporations when there are large externalities on the population.
That's something that's weighed against the benefits.
So, for example, economic benefits, that might be present from larger amounts of gas, or cheaper gas, or domestically produced gas, have to be weighed against things like environmental concerns.
So what I want to do today then is weigh those environmental concerns out, and explain why they are more significant.
First on water pollution.
So, hydro fracking isn't definitionaly an an practice.
It is something that actually breaks up large amounts of like rock base, and like the you know basically the geological structures, that separate under water water aquifers, that are generally the basis for most rural water supply, from the environment above, and the pollutants that it contains.
The problem with hydro fracking is that it breaks that barrier, that, not just the gas that is being pumped and the fluids that are being used to fracture the area, but also outside pollutants come into the water structure.
Now this isn't necessarily blowing a hole through like, the wall or whatever, and allowing whatever to come in, but those fractures mean that things can trickle down onto the water supply.
So, we see this with like really dramatic examples, like what was in the documentary gasland, where people in pennsylvania had like, what was essentially oil just coming through their their faucets.
These are really extreme examples, but it's worth noting that insofar as shale basins are often close to rivers, and other water sources, because of the geological way these basins are formed, generally speaking, these worst case scenarios are actually quite common.
Second independent point is air pollution.
This is just an intrinsic factor of natural gas, that when you know engage in actually harvesting something, that when you burn it produces CO two you inevitably increase like long term pollution, that goes into the atmosphere.
So, I think it's important to recognize also, that this is like not a zero sum equation, that when we engage in hydraulic fracturing, and create energy in that way, that has to come from somewhere else.
So, the comparative then is probably, if these, to some extent, bring an investment right?
That like, there is less pressure to research green technology from a political standpoint, if you can always fall back on the cheap availability of natural gas.
So, even if in the short term, there are economic benefits to having that natural gas.
I think it's more important to take the long view, and say: okay, but that's going to mean that we don't get green technology, that is financially feasible on a large scale for a longer amount of time, and as a result of that, global warming intensifies in the short term, which has a profound long term impacts.
My third independent point is earthquake.
Hydro fracking creates earthquakes.
I'm not going to go into the science of this, because I don't have much time left, but I think it's just worth recognizing that this is like an intuitive thing, that you can probably just reason for yourself right?
Like you blow up a lot of land, you weaken the geological basis that you're standing on, over time that means like movement within the earth's internal structures just more likely to send shock waves up to the surface, because the individual plates that are between the bottom and the top are looser.
So, and earthquakes are bad, people suffer, buildings collapse, there's large infrastructure damage, things like that, also, pipelines first, and then there's more pollution.
So, for all these reasons proud to propose the motion, that we should abolish that we should ban hydraulic fracturing.