I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban personality tests.
Three independent points: first is that personality tests are inherently non-reliable, that is that they are inconsistent and that they are based on faulty science.
The consistency of personality tests is something that's pretty readily apparent when you look at it.
As in people can take a couple different personality tests and get wildly divergent results.
This alone reveals a certain inconsistency within the industry itself, that something like the myers briggs test is radically different from the minnesota test, to the point of almost to the point where they are, you know, almost unrecognizable to another.
The definition of a personality test is so wildly divergent that if you think that any two of these tests has any merit to them, the entire industry becomes nonsense on face.
But secondly, even just internally if you look at these tests they're not based on rigid science.
They're based on general thoughts in more sort of social science about thoughts about what constitutes personality types that we often see in society.
That doesn't, however, give any scientific basis to the notion that there are objective personality types, that can even be categorized into the loose categories attempted by these tests.
Recognize that, you know, a simple distinction like introvert versus extrovert exists on a huge scale, with lots of gray areas.
And then categorizing this into a binary, like a personality type is often apt to do, is a fundamentally bad decision.
It's not a good way to categorize personalities and it's not representative of the person.
It paints a bad picture.
Our second independent point is that these tests, all their faulty basis are then used for what essentially constitutes employment discrimination.
Employment discrimination on face is obviously bad.
It's unjust that if you are preventing someone from gainful employment on arbitrary basis that is, you know, clearly not something that's good.
And the way in which this is facilitated by personality tests is that institutions like the military, for example, use them as a basis for determining who gets in and who doesn't.
When you make that decision based on an arbitrary input you are essentially committing discrimination.
That it is something that should not decide whether or not an individual gets gainful employment with your company or your institution, but nonetheless you are making the decision on that basis.
We see that is problematic and we see that as something that merits a ban.
Our third and final independent point is that there's stigmatization accompanying these tests.
When you create ways that you could put people into categories those are often taken advantage of.
People like to see ways that they can look down upon another, that they can see what they think of is an objective standard by which to apply others.
The problem, again, is that you know these tests are bad, they're not very good at actually representing the meat of what makes up the individual, and nonetheless people use them to judge others.
We think that this stigmatization, something like you know stigmatizing introverts for example, is a problem.
Not just because of the fact that it's inaccurate, but also because of the fact that stigmatization and marginalization are just in general bad things.
That we shouldn't relegate people to decipher society based on personality traits that are poorly defined at best.
Given that, we think that these tests actually perpetuate the myth that these are objective personality types or personality traits.
We perpetuate the notion that this is something that, you know, can actually be universally applied.
That you can take these traits from person to person and see some level of consistency.
We don't think that's true.
We think that the individual is much more than a universally applied trait.
As such, proud to propose.