I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion, that we should ban abortion.
We really have one point here, and that's that life is something that is irreplaceable, and that when life is extinguished, that is an incredible harm that we should actively avoid.
So, I want to start by establishing why these fetuses have a claim to life, and why that is something that is intrinsically true.
I think there's three standards, at which you can look at this from.
The first is just sort of the animal rights activists standard, of like do they experience pain or pleasure, and if they respond to these stimuli, in a way that signal some sort of like negative reaction to pain and pleasure, then they have rights.
I think a lot of scientific data has come out suggesting that fetuses do experience pain and pleasure, and do fall under this category.
I think this is, generally speaking, a good standard by which to determine whether or not something has a right to life, because it determines whether or not suffering is intrinsic to that, and at the most basic level, suffering is the one thing that we can just like absolutely prescribe as a bad thing to happen, and that when there is suffering in the world, that is a harm.
So, insofar as fetuses experience pain and pleasure, that is a reason to to preserve their life.
Second, we would say, like the really liberal standard, like this is like, bug rights and bacteria rights activists, is to say: well, can it move?
Like, is it a mobile thing, and does it like, have some clear understanding of like being able to make decisions, that, again, fetuses very clearly do.
They actively, like, make these subconscious decisions, and these decisions are like what allows them to survive in the womb.
I think the third standard, and this is really important, and merits some analysis, is future life, and whether or not that is something worth preserving.
So, first, establish the distinction of what a future life is.
I think, generally speaking, we can define this as someone, in the future, who will meet one of the standards of life.
You know, even if you take the really conservative position, of like: oh, well, it has to be a human, and everything else can just go crawl off and die, like, it has to need a standard of what life constitutes, and what things that have a meaningful claim to a right to life actually are.
Given that, I think that what a future life is, in terms of its worth, is equal to a present life.
The reason for this is that like, humans brains, right?
Like, operate like in a linear time.
That is to say, that like, we think about things in the order in which they happen.
That however is pretty arbitrary.
That if something bad happened in the past, we regard it to be bad, but if something bad is going to happen in the future, we don't think about it as much.
We think of it as a thing that is preventable maybe, but we don't see it as an actual harm, and I think that's a problem, because realistically a harm is a harm, and regardless of when it happens, it happens.
Likewise, we should think of benefits, in the same way.
That if someone is going to half life in the future, and if we consider that to be something that we value, then we should fight to be sure, that that life is going to be experienced.
So, let's say that you take the really strict definition of what constitutes life, and you don't think that these children have life right now.
Fine.
But they're going to in the future, and that's something worth preserving.
I think that future life is something that has a meaningful claim to any sort of rights framework that we prescribe to it, on the basis of the fact that it is equally capable of experiencing pain and pleasure, as someone in the present is.
Given that then, I think killing is bad.
It is the most basic rights violation that someone can undergo, and I think it really significantly outweighs most other rights violations, that we can discuss here.
Given that, this is something that is worth preserving, proud to propose.