I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should increase gun control.
Our first independent point is that people have a proactive right to possess a gun.
This is true for two reasons: first is that it is facilitative to other rights like your right to safety in self defense.
We think oftentimes it is important for people to have outsize firepower so to speak in order to ensure that their personal safety is protected.
Insuring that for example you have a shotgun in your home means it is very unlikely that you are actually going to suffer any sort of harm upon your personal safety or your personal health from some sort of intruder.
Insofar then it is facilitative to your right to good health which in turn is facilitative to your right to life.
We think that this is important.
But secondly we think that there's a proactive right because it is ensures that there is a check against government.
We think that while it is unlikely that people will actually take arms up against their government, it is important to ensure that people have the capacity to do so in the event that said government becomes tyrannical.
Given that there is obviously a possibility of this occurring, we think it's important to ensure that people are capable of rising up against tyranny with force and that the government does not maintain a monopoly on force.
Our second independent point is that significant gun control most likely just generates a black market.
Most of the really important types of gun regulations, things like tracking individual guns, that sort of thing, is really important to ensuring that guns don't end up in the hands of particularly dangerous individuals.
Repeat criminal offenders for example.
We think that a world though where people just outright can't buy guns , like in the model proposed by side government, just results in criminals turning to a unregulatable black market.
That in turn has a whole host of problems not just the fact that we can't like track guns and that sort of thing, but also that the types of guns can actually be more illegal models and things that wouldn't even be possible to buy in the legal market.
Things with like illegal modifications, for example, like really high capacity magazines or you know really like rapid firing ability, like literal submachine guns, that sort of thing.
Because if they're going into the black market already they might as well just like go for whatever the most effective killing tool is.
Our third and final independent point is that guns are necessary for stopping criminals.
We think that while police are generally effective at enforcing the law it is impossible for police to be like on every corner, this omnipresent force, and for rights related reasons it's probably honestly better that they're not.
That said then, especially in a high intensity situations, like an active shooter, there is often need for an extremely rapid response.
We think it is of publics service then when individuals are able to sort of carry their guns around with them in public and in effect act as good guy shooters.
This is important.
Because we think that the time often that it takes for police to get to an active shooter situation is the difference between you know potentially dozens of lives.
So if we think that someone , good guy with a gun type, can intervene in these situations, there can be mitigation of significant loss of life.
That in turn means that we think that we can have essentially a safer environment where more people's right to life is protected.
Proud to propose er oppose.