Today's motion to deconstruct the two-party system and abolish it is mechanistically complicated but philosophically simple.
We stand opposed to the notion that two parties should have a monopoly on the political operations of a single nation.
Given this, we have two points of of support.
First, diversity of choice and secondly, the ability for a legislature to be more responsive and more actionable to the needs of its populace.
We think that the two-party system, going under the first point of diversity of choice, fails to reflect the will of the populace for a number of reasons.
First, there is a lack of choices in the status quo, so it is unlikely that I'm going to find a good proxy for my individual political beliefs.
I might be somebody who is, say, opposed to gun control, but in favor of reproductive rights.
This makes it very difficult for me as an american citizen, therefore, to choose a party that actually reflects my individual political preferences and as a result, a large number of people are left out of the conversation.
Going off of this, we think that more broadly speaking, moderates or centrists are largely left out of the political conversation as a result of their inability to meaningfully decide which one of the parties is a better proxy for their individual preferences.
Secondly, we think that mismanagement of individual parties makes it very difficult to actually solve the root causes of this mismanagement when there's only one other choice that has a very different ideology from the party you previously supported.
It is difficult to support one party that is being mismanaged, whether that be for reasons pertaining to corruption or just poor campaigning, and jump ship to a different group.
As a result, it creates inefficient political systems.
Thirdly, it's notable that parties survive by being preferable to their opponent, which makes them very unresponsive to minor shifts in ideology amongst the populace.
For example, corporatism amongst democrats in the united states is very rarely addressed in any meaningful way because the comparative is always republicans.
We think in a multiparty system it is much more likely that these like minor preferences amongst the voting bodies are going to be responded to in efficacious matter.
We solve for these issues quite clearly because we create a system that has more than two parties and solve for these root harms of the two-party system, giving people more choices in their voting patterns.
Secondly, we believe that the legislatures in countries that adopt this system will be much more actionable upon the individual opinions of their cities.
Firstly, we think that this is important because dynamic governments reflect the preferences of their citizens best.
Opinions change over time so the status quo is rarely going to be the best possible version of the political system.
But furthermore, we think the dynamic changes and frequent legislative action stimulate discourse on topics that aren't discussed as fervently otherwise.
So why do we get more legislative action on our side of the house?
We think that gridlock exists in the status quo largely because there is an incentive to be oppositional in a two-party system.
For example, republicans had to oppose obamacare from the very beginning because any successes that would have been found within obamacare would have been political points lost by republicans.
That means that systems that are complicated and politically contentious are always doomed to fail, even if they are systems that would necessarily be beneficial to the general populace.
We think that coalitions allow an incentive to actually cooperate amongst parties because you can get mutual credit for a successful policy.
If there were, say, five parties in congress at the time that obamacare was being discussed, multiple parties can join in on the conversation and actually engage in creating a healthcare system that would have met up with the ideologies of multiple people across the political spectrum, and thus increase the likelihood of the program's success.
We think given this, we have significantly better outcomes for individual citizens on our side of the house.
Proud to propose.