I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban factory farming.
Our first independent point is animal rights.
So the reason that we philosophically think that animals have rights is that anything that can experience pain or pleasure and by extension express preferences deserves rights.
This is sort of approving a negative type of situation but we believe that the rationale for why humans exclusively deserve rights is at worst unwarranted and or at best unwarranted in that worst probably just like actively ablest.
For example if the divining rod is just like intelligence we don't think there's any rational reason why just like dumb people should have rights but like really intelligent animals, like say elephants are dolphins, don't.
Given this then, we think that the divining rods that are usually put up to determine like this is what has rights and this is what doesn't are completely arbitrary but principally we don't think something like intelligence should determine whether or not you have the right to anything life's abstinence from suffering whatever.
The reason for this is that simply put, suffering is bad.
So when things suffer, especially needlessly, we should prevent that.
I think there are any number of sort of like impact calculus is you could set up to compare like the pleasure that humans get from like cheap pork against them mass suffering and killing of animals but realistically that impact calculus probably isn't going to come down on the side of the thing that isn't like millions and millions of deaths.
At that point then, we think that even a small amount of rights allocated to animals justifies an end to factory farming because of the inhumane conditions and just the general notion of killing animals.
Our second independent point is the environmental impact of factory farming.
So methane explosives by various farm animals both through decomposing animals but also just through like byproducts and waste that living animals creates a significant amount of global warming.
The basic science behind global warming stipulates that like any the types of gases like particularly carbon rich gases, hold lots of heat when they go into the atmosphere and thus warm global temperatures.
This also has an effect on the oceans.
I'm not a scientist.
I don't know how that works.
But the bottom line is that large amounts of farming and large amounts of animal farming specifically, fuels global warming.
We think the impact of this is relatively self explanatory, that the existential threat posed by global warming is something worth avoiding things like rising sea levels, more severe storms, mass extinction.
These are all things worth avoiding and we think that if factory farming is a significant contributor to that crisis then we should stop factory farming.
Our third and final independent point is that factory farming is simply an inefficient way of getting nutrition's for humans.
This is a particularly important impact in a world with growing overpopulation and food shortages.
On a like per calorie basis if you have a certain amount of land it is just true that it is significantly cheaper to grow like wheat or some other type of like cereal grain or crop than it is to say raise a cow that needs like lots of land for grazing.
Even small space animals like chickens still require significantly more dollar investment and get significantly less like protein and things like that then if you would simply just like grown the like grains that you feed them and given that to humans instead.
At that point, we think the natural inefficiency of animal farming means that it is inexcusable in a world with large amounts of food shortages.
Proud to propose.