I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the attorney-client privilege.
I want to start this with a brief overview that is specifically in response to their second argument.
While I think that there are obviously some degree of inconsistencies in the existing law, I don't think that that's a justification for voting for government.
The reason is for this is that government puts forward a specific policy that then must be compared to the status quo.
I don't think, then, that the fact that other laws should probably be implemented, like a protection for, you know, bankers, or whoever they mention, is a active justification for implementing the policy that they discuss.
Rather, we think that these reforms are, you know, common sense and appropriate, but they are not germane to the motion being discussed.
Our first independent point is that abolishing the attorney-client privilege would have a chilling effect on clients being able to discuss things openly with their attorney and thus mitigate their fundamental right to legal representation.
Gov argues that the most important purpose of the criminal justice system is truth-seeking.
We disagree.
Rather, protecting the rights of the accused is significantly more appropriate.
This is because the purpose of the criminal justice system is rather not to just like needlessly inflict pain on those who are guilty, but rather to protect those who are innocent.
Sometimes this involves recourse, but we think that fundamentally the rights of the innocent are the most important aspect of our criminal justice system.
And because we believe that individuals are guilty are innocent until proven guilty, there is a need then to protect the rights of the accused until they are proven guilty.
That said, then, individuals will not disclose information if they are scared that it might have an effect on their like standing in court and that it can be used against them in a court of law.
The problem is that most people don't understand the intricacies of the legal system, and as a result they're unwilling to discuss things frankly with their attorney if they are worried that it can be used against them and if it is illegal in nature.
This is a problem then, because if people don't have the ability to discuss things candidly with the person that is protecting their right to proper representation in a court of law, they don't have the ability to defend themselves essentially in a court of law, that they're not protected against the intricacies of the system because the person who was meant to be their guardian cannot properly defend them without access to all the necessary information.
We care about their right to an attorney specifically because we care about the ability of people to navigate the legal system.
They don't have that capacity because of its complexity, and as a result they need that guardian to be able to navigate them through it properly.
Therefore, gov's policy violates the fundamental right to representation in court.
Our second independent point is that the actual impact on truth-seeking is fairly small.
And I think that gov actually warrants this by showing you that there are lots of other individuals involved with crimes that are not subject to this privilege.
The reason for the distinction is that the attorney uniquely represents a fundamental right, that is the right to representation, and we want to maximize access to that right.
We don't think that like bankers or other people represent accessing any sort of fundamental right.
So gov then explains to you, by giving you all these examples, as to why it's very unlikely that there will be a significant impact on truth-seeking if we just take this one individual out of the equation, in terms of people that can be subpoenaed to testify.
The lawyer, furthermore though, is usually not going to have access to vital information if individuals know that they can be forced to testify in court.
So when they talk about organized crime in their third point, like mafia bosses just won't disclose information to their lawyers if they're worried that the lawyer's going to be brought forward to testify.
That then just means that there's not a significant impact on truth-seeking because the information isn't disclosed in the first place, and rather we just mitigate the rights of the accused.
Proud to oppose.