I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban alcoholic beverages.
I think we would enact this much the same way that we enact most drug laws, that is we are fine people for , you know, possession charges and purchasing charges, things like that.
We consider much more significant charges though for people who are distributing or selling these substances, you know possibly encouraging jail incurring jail time.
So, two first I just want to establish though like a broad framework of when we're justified in enacting a ban.
I think there's a couple standards you can apply to this: so the first is information asymmetries.
And this basically just means that when people don't have sufficient information about the substance, that they are incapable of making a decision with informed consent.
Second is, you know, just sort of objective harm.
This is for example why we send people to school well against their will, because we recognize that school is just something that objectively benefits the individual.
And third is externalities.
That your right to make a decision to consume a particular substance stops at the point where no other people incur significant harms from it.
So I want to start with the information asymmetry.
That stems largely from advertisers, that because advertisers make conscious decisions to mislead individuals about the effects of alcohol, we think that there is a significant issue here.
That people, you know, don't talk about the addictive properties or the long term health effects that sort of thing.
And people then are making a decision to consume alcohol based on structurally faulty information.
Things that are fed to them by advertising firms, that are often extremely misleading.
Second I want to talk about the objective harm standard.
So I think this plays out in two ways: the first is the long term repeatedly demonstrated effects of alcohol.
Things like cancer, things like, you know, issues with your long term memory, any number of things that are incredibly incredibly harmful to individuals that drink alcohol.
But second is the addictive properties of it.
That this is a substance that is as addictive, if not more so, than many illegal drugs.
I think the problem here is that alcohol has been normalized from a cultural perspective, so we're less willing to admit that this is a serious drug, but the reality is that this is something that really ranks up there with the worst of the worst.
The withdrawal symptoms associated with alcohol really are second to none, except for you know maybe like heroin and math.
The addictive nature of the substance, it's very quick addiction time frame.
This is serious serious substance here.
And I think the only reason we take it so lightly is because of how long it's been around and how, you know, ingrained it is into our culture.
But this is something that creates serious objective harm to the individual and at that point I think we're we're warranted in constituting a ban.
Op will tell you, like, they're allowed to make a decision, you know, based on the trade off that, you know, alcohol makes you happy when you're drunk.
So is that a reasonable tradeoff?
That's only a decision individuals can make.
The problem is that because so many individuals are misled into alcohol you know by advertising firms, but also by just sort of word of mouth, I don't think that very often the people that are actually experiencing that pleasure from it, that's, I don't think that's something that occurs as much as people would like to think it is.
I think on average you know people really do suffer from this on balance.
Our third independent point is the externalities generated by alcohol consumption.
As with most most drugs, the people who suffer at the hands of it are much much more than just the individuals they consume it.
We're talking about the families that have to deal with the impacts of addiction.
We're talking about the, you know, the taxpayers that have to deal with the health impacts of people constantly going in and out of hospitals and , you know, the healthcare impacts of people paying higher healthcare premiums because these people, you know, really have a damaging impact on the health care pool.
I think there's a lot of ways in which society at large is damaged by people consuming alcohol on a widespread level, and at that point then, a ban is justified.
Proud to propose.