I'm proud to support the motion that we should subsidize investigative journalism.
I want to start this with an overview, though, of what the purpose of a sort of like press media is in any given western liberal democracy.
We think the purpose of the press is to ensure equal access to strong information about current events to the citizenry.
This is information, in general, is important as a right insofar as it is facilitative to other more basic rights, like the right to be represented well by your government in terms of the policies they pass.
If we don't have access to correct information about what's going on in the world around us, we can't reasonably formulate decisions about our preferences that we can then express to elected officials.
So it is always important to ensure that citizens within a democracy have access to as much and as much accurate information as possible.
We think then that more funding for investigative journalism fulfills this necessity in three distinct ways.
First is we believe that this leads to more accurate reporting.
Investigative journalism, by its nature, caters to like a group of people, and specifically a group of news consumers, that are more concerned than the average person with the accuracy in their reporting.
Investigative journalism, by its nature, is generally not as sensationalist as, say, like tabloid reporting or even like a mid-rate standard newspaper, like see, like, I don't know, USA today.
So, this is going to be it - investigative journalism is going to be more concerned with like raw facts and like basic truths than your average reporting.
This is important obviously because if your information is inaccurate and people are formulating decisions and preferences based on inaccurate information, you're not fulfilling the baseline needs I articulated at the top of this speech.
The second thing that we think that investigative journalism does is have more specificity in the type of reporting.
So what we mean by this is rather than sort of broad, overarching reported on, like, the themes of a presidency or like the broad ideology, we specifically get journalism that is more tailored to individual things that are more important in terms of what's happening.
So rather than just being like " trump is pulling out of the paris accords ", like maybe an investigative investigation into like why specific members of his cabinet had a vested interest in this.
Like were there business ties involved in that decision?
What were the underlying ideological bases?
Which advisers had a more prominent role in the crafting of that decision?
We think that this granularity in reporting is particularly important because it can often reveal things that a broad, overarching picture doesn't.
We have a tendency to favor simplified narratives because they're easier to consume.
But in reality, the fine details are important in both predicting future events and in understanding how we as citizens want things to change so the things that we don't like happening can stop happening.
If you don't know that jared kushner is the reason a policy got passed, then you won't know to oppose jared kushner's presence in the white house.
Our third and final point here is that we believe that investigative journalism is particularly apt at decreasing power imbalances in the type of information received.
And what we mean by this is that generally wealthier people, people who are in positions of power, are more capable of accessing detailed information because they are proximate to it.
Government officials obviously know more about government processes, because they are sort of like in the room where it happens.
They are part of that process.
We think, though, that citizens also have a right to that information because, as mentioned earlier, this is facilitative to exercising other basic rights.
We think then that investigative journalism that goes behind the scenes and tells people this is how x, y and z happened, reduces the imbalance that creates systemic inequity in our society.
We think that when wealthy people are disproportionate likely disproportionately likely to get information that allows them to express preferences and opinions, that systemically perpetuates this inequity that exists in our society.
Proud to propose.