I am proud to oppose the motion that we should ban fast food.
Three independent points, the first of which is that people should have autonomy to make decisions for themselves over what they're going to consume.
We think there's two ways that this breaks down.
The first is specifically the informed consent component of this.
So, government takes issue with the fact that there is an asymmetry of information regarding the healthiness of this food.
I think the fundamental problem here is that people are perfectly aware that mcdonald's is bad for you.
Recognize that people have relative preferences so even if, you know, you or I might not eat mcdonald's cause we don't like how unhealthy it is, other people can make decisions based on their own set of priorities, like cost or taste, that, you know, essentially means that, on balance, even if the food is not good for their long-term health, they still might find this to be something that is net desirable or net utile to them on an individual level.
As such, we don't think it's justified or rational for the government to make that decision for them.
We think if people are well-informed about what this the implications of this are, which we think that they are, you know, people understand that mcdonald's is unhealthy, then we think at that point, they're well-equipped to make that decision for themselves.
But secondly, with regards to the argument that government brings forward about third-party harms, specifically children, we think that this is again a case of autonomy, that we think that in the case where children can't make decisions for themselves, parents are in the best position to make these decisions for them.
So a question of whether or not, for example, eating a healthier type of food that's more expensive means, you know, you can't get something else for the kid that's useful, we think that means that the parent is uniquely in decision decide whether or not this being part of the child's diet is something that is, you know, net beneficial for that child.
And again, we don't think that the state has the necessary information to make that decision for them.
Our second independent point is about the cost of fast food.
So we think that what happens when you don't have fast food, contrary to the assertions of side government, is that you have people that are still going to, you know, eat cheap fast food.
I'll get to that in a moment, but just relatively less cheap.
So, let's take, for example, the pipe dream of side government about lots of like small, independent restaurants opening up.
I think the problem with that world is that those small, independent restaurants are more expensive.
And what happens in the status quo is certainly objectionable, where you take money out of the pockets of poor people who eat mcdonald's and what not and put it into the, you know, hands of people like ray kroc.
But I think the comparative is that you're even if you're putting that money in the hands of the middle class, in this world with lots of small restaurants, the comparative is you're taking more money out of the hands of impoverished people that can't afford to, you know, build their own restaurants.
At that point then, I think the harm is more significant, because the harms intrinsic to poverty are non-linear.
That is, poverty becomes exponentially more harmful because of lack of access to services the further down the income scale you are.
So even if the people receiving the money are more deserving of it on their side of the house, the people losing the money are losing so much more and are at such a bigger position to suffer as a result of it, that we think the net impact is extremely problematic.
Our final and third independent point is the inconsistent nature of this.
So the reality is that we don't even think the counterfactual world looks the way government tells you.
We think what happens is that people just eat other unhealthy food, because their primary incentive is to eat things that are cheap.
At that point that we think there's two problems, first, they don't get access to any of the impacts that they talk about, like about like public healthcare costs and that sort of thing, because all the health impacts are still there.
You can make unhealthy food in your kitchen, it's just more expensive.
But secondly, we think that there's a poor signal being articulated here.
So, we think that people specifically take issue with nanny state politics.
And at that point then, we think there has to be a really strong reason to actually get this, you know, through, to actually justify these policies in order to justify the inevitable anger that will follow them.
We think because people will be unhappy with the inconsistency that's present here, that is, banning fast food but not other types of unhealthy food, we think there are problematic ways in which this affects the ways that people view their government.
Proud to oppose.