I'm proud to support the motion that we should ban telemarketing.
Three independent points: first is the quality of life harms that stem from this practice.
So we think, in general, when we talk about a government ban, the type of framework that we want to set up is whether or not a that specific practice does more harm than good.
As a general rule of thumb, we try to ban things when they create significant harms to citizens that are greater than whatever benefits that they might bring.
I think this equation is often something that rests in a sort of gray zone where we're not really sure how to calculate the benefits versus the harms, but telemarketing lies in a pretty obviously harmful zone.
To begin with, we don't think it is particularly clear what the benefits of telemarketing are.
There are obviously benefits accrued to firms.
They could just sell more things.
But we think that: one, for the large part, telemarketers are located outside of the country that they are often targeting, and b, these gains are usually made in an abusive practice.
That means that there's not much of a principled like desert claim to be made here in terms of what the firm should benefit from.
For me, sort of constituent like consumer side of things, it's pretty clear that there is net harms.
That is, you know, this is an intrusive practice, one that can have like distinct harms on like, you know, having to deal with these phone calls throughout the day, like newer tricks that are like allowing telemarketers to make it look like they're calling from your home area, and we think that this creates a significant burden on the individual.
Obviously, this doesn't compare to something like, say, being like physically ill or something like that, but we think this is a distinct quality of life harm that doesn't have much of a benefit to weigh against it and as such, we should lean towards abolishing the practice.
Our second independent point, though, is that the abusive nature of this makes it disproportionately harmful on particular portions of the population.
So we think one good example of this is the way in which telemarketers seek to abuse elders, people that are usually less knowledgeable about newer technologies in the way that like, say, financial markets or insurance markets work now.
So telemarketers are often capable of putting pressure on elderly people through these phone calls, telling them something like they have back taxes that are due or telling them that they need to get this insurance for their computer or something.
Because they don't understand the systems and they don't understand the technology, they are disproportionately likely to give in to the demands of an abusive telemarketer.
We think these disparate harms then justify a government ban, because the government has a vested interest in protecting vulnerable populations.
Our third and final independent point, though, is more defensive in nature.
We think that a lot of what opposition is going to tell you is that there are reasonable ways of opting out of the system, like placing yourself on a do-not-call list, that can get you out of these harms in a way that justifies affirmative consent into being the subject of telemarketing.
We think the problem with this, though, is that the existing gray zones, particularly with the newer technologies that exist in the telemarketing industry, make it difficult for government agencies to crack down on truly abusive telemarketing companies that are acting outside of the law.
So that, like, location tracking technology I mentioned earlier is something that the FAA, or FCC rather, has a lot of trouble actually tracking down and identifying the source of.
As such, the FCC is often reluctant to crack down on an individual calling source, because they are incapable of determining of whether or not this is genuinely a telemarketer, and they act with sort of a broader sense of caution in order to avoid punishing an innocent person.
Given this, we think that allowing telemarketing to be legal at all is the root cause of why government agencies are incapable of meaningfully cracking down on the most abusive practices.
Insofar as there are very few benefits from legitimate practices and there are lots of harms from illegitimate practices, we think a blanket ban is justified insofar as it creates a legal framework that is more capable of responding to genuine issues.
Proud to propose.