I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should implement zero tolerance policies.
Three independent points: first is that they are arbitrary in nature.
We think that a lot of the times when you're talking about any sort of policy that is being constructed, especially for schools, there's a certain level of gray zones that are intrinsic to anything.
Generally speaking there are various shades of gray in terms of not just the severity of the infringement.
So for example you know having drugs versus using drugs in the school, but also in terms of whether or not it even constitutes like an a thing that the individuals you know guilty of.
So for example you know like holding on to someone else's drugs, well because they're worried about getting caught.
We think that these various shades of gray represent various shades of punishments that should be inflicted.
You know, in the sense that the criminal justice system has various types of goals that it's trying to achieve, we think any punishment system should be the same.
So things like rehabilitation or, you know, retribution or any of these things, they're necessarily undermined by a one size fits all punishment scheme, that first people are less likely to commit minor versions of crimes, on the assumption that they're you know going to get less of a punishment.
So for example if you're selling drugs in school you're going to be a lot more likely to just take a lot of drugs in with you rather than a small amount if the punishments always going to be the same and as such any harms that you can envision from that are likely to be larger.
But secondly, we think that people are less likely to respond well to the notion of these punishments.
We'll get more into sort of how this system alienates people later but I think it's just important to recognize that people are less likely to respect authority figures if they feel that the punishment scheme is arbitrary.
Our second independent point is subjectivity.
So we believe that when analyzing a specific infringement, it's important to take context into account.
So for example whether or not an individual you know comes from a troubled home or you know relies on you know selling drugs for money or something like that.
While we think that it's important to insure that kids you know don't actually do these types of things, it is more important to understand the you know sort of context under which this, you know, infraction exists.
The reason for this is that if our basic idea with the school system is to help these children and to provide a support system, we don't want to just sort of like throw them to the hounds every time that something goes wrong.
Rather, we want to create a robust you know robust student code essentially, that can internalize these types of subjective contexts and say: " look, like we understand you come for troubled background we're here to help. "
And not just be like: " no, sorry.
Zero tolerance policy.
Get out. "
At that point then we think that this the zero tolerance scheme eliminates our ability to intervene and specifically help individuals under which the context might be different.
Our third and final independent point though is alienation.
So as alluded to earlier, we think that children are a lot less likely to put their faith in a system that they see is arbitrary.
But more importantly we think that children are a lot less likely to actually sort of like work with the school when it comes to these issues if they feel like the school is not there to help.
We want to give the sort of like optics of the school as a guardian, as an institution that's looking out for the best interests of the children.
We think that if children see these zero tolerance policies, see how draconian they are, and decide that the school is not their guardian, is not there to help them, but is rather something that is actively attempting to fight or contain them, children are a lot less likely to work with institutional pillars, like say guidance counselors on you know essentially seeking help and seeking structure in their lives, when they distrust the institution as a whole.
These types of policies erode our ability to use schools the best way possible and as such I think it's a lot more reasonable to create a punishment scheme that is more tolerant of individual circumstances and more willing to look at you know sort of subjective fine lines in any individual infraction.
Proud to oppose.