I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that that organ donation should be mandatory.
We'll implement this just for, you know, after death.
Obviously, we're not going to force people to give up their organs while they're alive but, you know, if you die in a way that allows your organs to be somewhat intact, we will mandate that all organs inside that dead body be donated to, you know, the public the public waiting list for organs.
So, you know, if you get in a car crash and your kidneys are doing just fine, your kidneys are going to get donated after you die.
So, two independent points: first is that this policy solves for a current shortage in organs.
This is, you know, something that is a problem worldwide, but is particularly pernicious in the united states.
Right now, there is not enough organs to meet the number of people that need them.
This solves by increasing the supply, obviously, there're just like more organs in the system now when you're taking literally everybody's organs.
In fact, there's probably a bit of a surplus.
And the health impacts of this are pretty profound: that people die, you know, almost daily, waiting on organs essentially, especially the ones that are, you know, tougher to get, things like bone marrow or a heart transplant.
So this is most likely going to be something that allows for a solvency in those harder to get organs, allows for you to have people, you know, that are currently suffering, that are currently dying, waiting for these organs, to receive what they need to survive.
Our second independent point is that corpses don't have rights.
This is what I really want to establish here.
Because it's obvious that it is good when people get organs and they don't die.
The countervailing from arguments from opp, then, are always going to be something to the effect of, you know, people have property rights over their body and therefore we should not, you know, just like take their organs from them.
I think the problem with this is that those property rights don't continue into death.
So, the reason why we consider individuals to have some sort of autonomy over their body is because it's something they actively possess, that is, you know, the body is just, you know, a means by which to exert our own preferences.
So, if I want to go for a run, I only have property rights over my body, because I need my body to go for a run.
Like it's just a a thing that's used to facilitate stuff that we want.
But if I can't want anything anymore, if I'm dead, if I don't have preferences, then I don't have property rights over the things that were facilitative.
Opp's going to tell you then that, you know, people have preferences in life about what happens to their body after death and that we should respect those preferences.
The problem there is twofold.
One is that I think at that point, you're really, really getting into like thin preference enactment there.
Like these are not significant goals to fulfill, and I think that allowing someone to not die in need of like a heart transplant is always going to be the way more significant goal to achieve and the one that we should definitely prioritize.
But secondly, I don't think that people should just like have their preferences enacted like infinitely.
, you know, like the fact that someone wants something to happen to them after death is all well and good in the same sense that, you know, if I like want to kill someone, that's also well and good.
I could want whatever I want.
The problem is that the government has to make a choice, though, on which want they're going to prioritize.
I don't think, again, that this is significant enough to merit letting somebody that's waiting on an organ die.
Given that then, it seems fairly intuitive to me to disregard whatever like rights you think that the corpse might have in favor of the rights of someone who is actively living, has preferences that can be fulfilled or denied, and therefore probably has significantly more moral worth.
Proud to propose.