I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish the united nations.
Two independent points: first, is that the united nations is an imperialist institution.
Generally speaking, the way in which this platform is used is for large nations to have a forum to dismantle the public opposition they receive from smaller nations.
So generally speaking the way in which larger nations say, exploit smaller nations for their resources or will generally seek their support in imperialist attitudes towards other small nations, this is something that uniquely plays out on the floor of the united nations.
And the reason for this is that it creates a sort of cloak of benevolence.
That is that historically, these actions have been transparently imperialist.
That when a country goes in and invades another country, that is obviously imperialism.
When they conquer that country and like take its resources, that is obviously imperialism.
But when it is done so under the sort of cloak of benevolence, that when it is done on the floor of the united nations with the approval of other member nations, it can be plausibly passed off as something that is humanitarian.
This is problematic because it allows actions that are still harmful, that are still bad, to be passed off as things that are excusable simply because of the institution under which the intent of those actions are being communicated.
Insofar as that platform is granted to large powerful actors, we think this is something that on net is bad.
What op is most likely going to tell you is that it's a form for cooperation.
That deals, things like climate agreements, are reached on the floor of the united nations and that this outweighs it.
Well the paris agreement might be an example of something that's objectively good.
I think generally speaking these agreements like agreements regarding resources or access to water rights things like that, are hammered out by large powerful nations and smaller actors are generally sidelined.
So while there is intrinsic cooperation in the united nations, if that cooperation is harmful and is necessarily designed to crowd out the weak, we think this is a problem.
Our second independent point is that the united nations is ineffective.
A couple reasons for this.
First, security council vetoes.
The most important action that the united nations was designed to stop is interstate violence.
That is, to prevent warfare, to prevent conflict.
We think it is bad at doing this though, when the largest, most violence prone countries, see like, russia, the US, the UK, have the capacity to veto any action taken by the security council.
Thus meaning that those powers are never going to be prevented from engaging in warfare.
This is problematic because it creates again this sort of shroud of benevolence.
That countries can say, oh well the UN didn't do anything to stop me, so I must be justified in going through.
That that false solvency creates a justification for acts of violence and we think that's a problem.
Secondly, the UN has a free rider issue, that a small group of nations put in the majority of the work, and that the other nations generally feed right off of those efforts.
This is ranging from everything to you know, peacekeeper agreements and security deals, all the way to you know climate agreements and emissions reductions.
So we think that generally speaking there isn't much change from just what unilateral action would bring.
For these reasons we think that the ineffectiveness of the united nations is a sunk cost, that generally speaking the money that goes into it would be better used elsewhere.
Proud to propose.