I'm proud to support the motion that we should protect whistleblowers.
Our first independent point is accountability within governing structures.
We think in the status quo there're a lot of institutions like say the NSA or the department of defense that are unwilling to sort of like say what they're doing or even what the rationale for what they're doing is because of the sensitive nature of what they are working with.
What we understand that of course there are impacts on national security that stem from the leaking of this information, we think it is fundamentally more important for people to be informed on the processes of government and specifically on what their government is doing.
If government is meant to act in the best interests of the citizens, it's important for citizens to have some level of input on government processes and that's impossible if people literally don't know what their government is doing.
In order for lawmakers to vote on policies that represent the interests of their constituents or for even constituents to just have some understanding of how their government is working and what they're doing to protect them, it's necessary to have a degree of transparency and accountability.
We think that because power structures are unlikely to listen to subordinates that are looking to say look this practice is unjust or it's unethical because there isn't that link in the system we think then that it is exponentially more important to have whistleblowers because this is realistically the only way the public will become informed.
Our second independent point is that from the justice perspective of what a criminal justice system is meant to do, this is fair.
We think that if there is a rationale for prosecuting whistleblowers it is that they cause some sort of societal harm that outweighs the the sort of like information they provided.
But fundamentally we think this is incorrect, that usually whistleblowers don't actually create that much damage.
So I think like a really often cited example is that though wikileaks like information that was given in around two thousand eight or so that that had names of like CIA informants.
I think this gets cited a lot but realistically it's like the only example of time actual sensitive information was released.
Oftentimes we think that this is simply this sensitive information is the government abuse that we look bad because we were spying on like the german government but realistically like yeah that's something the government wants to keep secret but it's also the thing that we want to know and we think at the point where those two goals are irreconcilable, we always prefer the system that allows a flourishing democracy that is more capable of addressing the needs and preferences of the citizens and constituents.
Our third and final independent point is that this leads to a more positive culture internally within government systems.
So what we mean by this is that presumably like the ideal world for side government is one side opposition rather is one where in like these whistleblowers instead of going to the media just say to their supervisors like oh hey I think you should stop doing that.
The problem as I already mentioned is that that's like never going to happen.
You are just never going to have the the head of the NSA say oh yeah edward snowden you're right that is a rights abuse like we should just stop doing that because these systems are usually based on a rigid hierarchies that make authority figures unwilling to listen to dissent at lower levels.
We think that what protecting whistleblowers does though is give leverage to those people at lower levels of the administration and as such it protects them in such a way that ensures that the administrators and the higher-ups within these agencies are going to be more likely to listen to their concerns, more likely to listen to dissent in general out of fear of some sort of whistleblowing.
We think if you want internal reform it is more likely to happen on our side of the house because people are more likely to act in a way that will prevent whistleblowing from even happening in the first place.
Proud to propose.