I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should endorse zero tolerance policies on the basis of three independent points.
First, that the things that are actually discouraged by zero tolerance policies are often acceptable things to have.
Second, that implementation is definitional going to be poor and third, that it fosters a lack of faith in the institution.
So on the first point that the items themselves are acceptable I think well firearms are probably less of a defensible thing.
Substances specifically drugs, are probably a lot more reasonable.
I think even if you're going on the far end of these types of things generally we respect the ability of people to consent into these and it creates the notion on their side of the house though that these are these like inherently evil substances.
I think the problem then, is that they create a very black and white picture when the reality is quite gray.
They institute the notion that is then carried on throughout life and fosters things like the war on drugs that drugs are these terrible things that you should never ever be able to come into contact because if you do you will die.
I think the problem then is that they want to solve for things like inequity in implementation, like they talk about jocks getting like off easy.
The problem for is that I don't think that you solve for that inequity by extending injustice to the people who are privileged in the status quo.
I think the real solvency is to loosen the policies that exists right now and just ensure that like the like students of color and the poorer students that have to deal with the brunt of the issue right now, are not so heavily targeted in the long term.
The second independent point that implementation is definitionally bad, I think the problem is that when you talk about zero tolerance that definitionally means you will crack down into theoretically defensible situations things like this student had a prescription, the item was planted on them by another student, the student legitimately just did not know any better because they were raised in an environment that didn't teach them any better.
I think there are lots of legitimate excuses for having these items even if you don't think that having them is a defensible thing and like in a more abstract sense, and given that, I think it is really really bad when you create a system that doesn't give the administration an out for a sniff test.
It is good when you allow these administrative officials to say wait, but here's a situation which following the letter of the law probably isn't the best idea.
That latitude is important.
It is the difference between a child like going to like juvy or not or being sent to an alternative school.
These things have really profound impact on an ability of a child to come to like an actual point a position in their long term existence and given that, I think they create a slippery slope where in generally speaking, these people who would normally be able to get out of a situation that they probably don't deserve to be punished for because the administration is capable of saying this is unfair to just follow the exact letter of the rule.
That doesn't happen anymore on their side of the house.
My third independent point that it fosters a lack of faith in the institution is rooted in the fact that it affirms the school as uncaring and out of touch.
So this is another step to it, right, that even if you don't buy that the implementation is inherently bad I think students will see that there are often going to be situations in which they think there were two sides to the story and the zero tolerance policy means that the school is literally not allowed to even consider the other side of the story.
This affirms from an early age the notion that these institutions are out of touch.
Something that often extends to other things like law enforcement or government.
When students from an early age see authorities as unwilling to listen to their plight, an uncaring about their side of the story, that creates a harmful environment and a harmful narrative about what authority is.
Given that, I think it is just better to have systems of authority that are willing to listen to both sides of the story.
Proud to oppose.