I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban needle exchanges.
Our first independent point is that needle exchanges mitigate the spread of HIV.
So this is the way that impact calculus works for people who are undergoing active addiction.
What essentially happens is that if you have a heroin addiction you're not thinking like, oh this needle is dirty, it might have been used by someone with HIV previously, like I shouldn't share needles with my friends, instead I should just go buy new ones.
This is because, a, people often don't have money to do that when they're in the throes of drug addiction and homelessness, but secondly, that usually this is something that you just want a quick fix and if you don't have clean needles on hand you're not going to use them.
So this is a problem then for two reasons.
The first is that HIV spread obviously harms the people carrying HIV, that is the addicts themselves are undergoing significant harm and as such we want to, you know, mitigate the harm that they experience.
But secondly, because HIV is contagious we don't want them getting HIV because that hurts the public.
This is you know both truth in the fact that an individual who comes into contact with a used needle could contract HIV or comes into contact simply with someone that has HIV but secondly, it's a problem because when they inevitably need you know healthcare services for their treatment that's something that's often done on the public dime and as such creates a significant expenditure for the public.
We think then that there are specific benefits to people who aren't even actively using that justify the presence of needle exchanges.
Second is that these our second independent point is that these clinics and these needle exchanges actively facilitate access to recovery services.
So the primary idea behind needle exchanges is certainly HIV mitigation and other STDs.
But I think what's really important to understand here is that contrary to government's assertions, one of the founding principles is that by getting people in the door and talking to you know public health professionals they're actually going to have these interactions with people who can then get them into care, get them into hospitals recovery programs, that sort of thing.
It's an active door then and a step towards rehabilitation.
And it's important because often there's co-occurrence disorders.
So you have, in addition to substance abuse disorder, will often co-occur with homelessness, mental health issues, that sort of thing.
Things that make people very reluctant to you know just walk into a hospital or rehab clinic and say, I want help.
It's important then to use needle exchanges as a stepping stone to facilitate positive relations between the individual and you know government apparatuses and healthcare systems.
That in turn ensures then that there's a robust system for actually providing access to these people.
Our third and final inde-point independent point is that, again, contrary to the assertions of side government it needle exchanges actually decrease the number of you know needles that are found lying around on the ground and that sort of thing.
And the reason for this is both political and practical.
Needle exchanges want to ensure that there are you know less dirty needles in circulation so that people are less likely to contract STDs and that sort of thing from them.
As such then, they'll often go around picking up needles off the ground that have been improperly discarded and properly discarded them.
But they also do this for political reasons.
That is, in order to make themselves more politically palatable they'll help with cleanup and oftentimes, such as in boston, they are actually the sole organization in charge of government funded cleanup of improperly disposed hypodermic needles.
As such then, we think that these centers actually have a positive effect on public cleanliness and public safety.
Even if the number raw number of needles going to circulation is increasing, the harms that are internalized by the public by needles being in circulation, that is the litter associated with it, is reduced by the exchange.
Proud to oppose.