I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban gambling.
Two independent points, but first some quick definitions.
We'll define gambling as an activity that is wholly based on chance.
So when you wager money based on something like, say, a roll of a die or a roulette wheel, that is one hundred percent chance, and there's no skill involved in it.
We are willing to allow things that are somewhat skill-based but also based on probability , you know, like poker, for example, has like an actual skill set associated with it.
We're fine with that.
Horse race betting, for example, is based on, you know, knowledge of the activity.
We're fine with that.
What we are banning is explicitly things that are completely based on chance, like say, a lottery.
So, two independent points.
The first is that this activity is often addictive.
Recognize that there isn't actually a logical basis for engaging in wholly chance paced games.
You know, they're really just these games are structurally designed to pay out less than they take in, so they are designed to actually exploit the individuals who participate in them, and yet nonetheless people routinely engage in this activity because the rush of gambling is something that, you know, people just want to keep coming back to, even when it harms them.
This is, you know, really just the definition of addictive behavior.
This not only inflicts harm on the individual who is, you know, in the throes of addiction, but also on people close to them, the family who has to, you know, deal with the addiction itself and actually, you know, live around the sort of this person who is suffering, but also the financial harm that it inflicts.
People who gamble away life savings, or college savings, or things like that, these are really serious harms inflicted on third parties.
So we think it's fine to ban this activity insofar as that isolates lots of people from the suffering intrinsic to these issues.
Our second independent point is that gambling as an industry is predatory in nature.
Casinos and lotteries are particularly good examples of institutions that prey on the poor.
Casinos by luring people in and then essentially entrapping them in a room where , you know, you're constantly just given whatever it is you need offhand so that you stay in there.
This, either way, also directly facilitates addiction by enabling this behavior and creating an environment in which your addiction is actively encouraged.
But second, with lotteries, you see like active campaigning that is directly targeted at poor individuals.
Things that are like, " it could be you, " and then say like, " oh, this is how you like pay off that debt " or whatever.
Just sink a ton of your money into this state lottery and then, you know, don't actually get it back, because that's how lotteries work.
You don't win them.
Basically, nobody wins the lottery.
This is important, because these types of institutions then prey on individuals who are disproportionately vulnerable and less equipped to deal with the financial ramifications of losing large amounts of money on a casino or on gambling.
Insofar as these institutions are predatory, and insofar as that is intrinsic to their nature, that is, that casinos and lotteries would not work unless they engaged in these predatory practices that brought more people in, enough to balance the books and keep the institution running, we should abolish them.
There isn't a reasonable reform at the point where the financial success of your industry is predicated on predatory activities.
Given these reasons, given that there isn't a strong justification for why people have a right to gamble, but there is clear-cut evidence for why this is exceptionally harmful for individuals who are caught in the throes of this addiction or who are preyed upon by these industries, I am proud to propose.