I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should adopt mobile payments.
Two independent points: first is security.
So, I think when gov comes up here and they're like, " opp is clearly going to be luddites, like we need to move forward with new, breaking-edge technology, " I think there's intrinsic risk in moving too fast.
The problem that I particularly see with mobile payments is that by virtue of the fact that this is something that is now fully virtual and that there is no physical component, like not even a card associated with it, this is something that's much less secure.
This is something that if, you know, like the wrong database was hacked into or if the wrong company just like went down or a website went down, this could have really profound impacts on not just individual people's ability to spend their money, but also just sort of the global economy.
If the primary method for people, you know, making their payments becomes dependent on some server staying up, we think that brings a lot of inherent instability into, you know, people's ability to do that on a regular basis.
Amazon being hacked into recently, for example, resulted in a lot of websites going down because they were reliant on amazon's web services.
And the way in which the internet and sort of online services, in general, are so deeply interconnected means that this is an inherently riskier form of making transactions.
Our second independent point is that mobile banking, particularly, puts a lot of power into the hands of cell providers and phone makers.
So, we think that in the status quo, as gov discussed, there is a bit of if not a monopoly, something quite close to it.
There's a small number of very powerful firms that control the entire market, you know, groups like paypal, mastercard, visa, that's pretty much it.
And even though there's more banks than that, the actual payment services are there's very few of them, and as such there's very little competition in the market.
Gov then tells you that introducing like apple and microsoft is going to be the solution to a market that's dominated by big players.
I think there's a fundamental problem with this that , you know, generally speaking, cell providers , that is, the people that actually will be designing these apps and handling these payments are not or cell makers, that is, are not the types of firms that are , you know, generally too friendly to their competition.
Apple has ruthlessly taken down opposition firms in the past, as has microsoft, and google is really the only other, you know, big firm that's actually putting out smart phones at the time.
This is a problem then, of course, because this means that you're not actually diversifying the market.
If anything, you're just putting in more players that have a demonstrated history of ruthlessly taking out their competition.
We don't think that this is then the solution to the type of market-based analysis that government tells you.
Rather, we think this would just exacerbate the ongoing issues that are present in in sort of the the online and other non-cash payment based services.
If anything, actually, this will probably just open the door for acquisitions to occur, in which case the market would consolidate further but would be put into the hands of even more powerful actors, thus exacerbating the imbalance in power that these firms have over consumers.
Proud to oppose.