I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize the sale of organs.
We'll model this with you know the reasonable limitations that we would put on any market.
So we're going to regulate this.
We're going to ensure safe practices, that is you know organs can only be removed by licensed surgeons in hospitals.
There will obviously be heavy restrictions on who these organs can be sold to, how the transplants will be carried out.
Again, this has to happen you know by a surgeon, in a hospital.
So we're going to ensure that this is done you know safely and as cleanly as possible.
Two independent points.
First is bodily autonomy.
So the reason why we think that bodily autonomy you know matters, is for the reason why generally just autonomy matters.
That the key to a you know happy and successful life is fundamentally the capacity to do what you want and act upon your personal preferences.
Different people have different preferences and as such, it's a good thing when we allow them to you know make decisions based on what their personal preferences are and what they believe will make them happiest.
One really key aspect to that then is your you know bodily autonomy, that is that your body is something intrinsic to you and is really important part of actually you know acting upon your personal desires and in so far as that's true, we think that it's important for us specifically governments, to respect people's will to do as they please but their bodies and that's important because if you know someone pleases to sell their kidney for five thousand dollars so that they can you know send their kids to college then that's you know well within their rights.
We think that this is something that's important for allowing people to make their own decisions based on informed consent and insofar as people have bodily autonomy and in so far as this is a right that we respect, we think that the ability to sell you know parts of one's own body, if that's something that they choose to do, is a perfectly legitimate decision.
Our second independent point is that there is a black market that exists in the status quo regardless of legality and that legalization can mitigate the harms of that black market.
So right now, organs you know are still harvested and sold on the black market because they're exceptionally valuable.
People care very very deeply about the ability to sell these or to buy these organs because this is something that is often a life or death situation.
Well you know waiting and languishing for long amounts of time on a waiting list is a serious issue for people and so instead they prefer to you know just buy the organs instead on the black market.
This black market of course is rife with harms.
It's unregulated so there's often unsanitary and abusive practices.
The unsanitary nature of that is a problem because of course it can result in infection and long term injury to individuals that participate in the market but the abuse is particularly concerning because it often means things like human trafficking and other forms of you know illegally and quite you know problematically obtaining these organs.
As a result then, we think that there's significant suffering linked with the black market particularly in the developing world where protections and legal enforcement is less strict and we think that by legalizing this market then, we can ensure that the suffering on the margins decreases significantly.
The black market is exceptionally expensive largely because of its illegal nature.
The risks associated with engaging in the practice drive up the price.
So a legal market would be cheaper thereby crowding out the black market and crowding out the problematic practices that make the organ trade so unsavory right now.
We prefer a system then, that legally ensures that people aren't going to be abused for participating in this market and furthermore does a better job of meeting the demands of people waiting on organs thereby again mitigating suffering that exists in the status quo.
Proud to propose.