I'm proud to stand a proposition of the motion that we should abolish nuclear weapons.
Three model of this is, you know basically just we would support a world wherein countries voluntarily surrender their nuclear arsenals, were also comfortable with doing this by UN mandate but I think for the purpose of the debate this is more about the end so I'm willing to just call you out that people will surrender these arms.
So, three independent points under this: first is money, second is accidental launches, and third, sorry four independent points.
Third is environmental harms and fourth is belligerence that is enabled by possession of nuclear weapons.
So first on money, it's worth recognizing that the investments of any given country are a zero sum decision and that money poured into nuclear weapons programs are money that could be spent elsewhere, such on like social safety nets or things like that.
Nuclear weapons programs are very expensive, they cost lots of money to create in the first place, and then even more money to maintain over years and years and years.
The US alone has poured literally trillions of dollars into their nuclear program.
This is trillions of dollars that could have gone to welfare spending, it could have gone to construction of affordable housing, it could have gone to any number of things.
Even just lower taxes.
Any number of things could have actually benefited people on the ground in ways that nuclear weapons have not.
Second is accidental launches.
We think this happens in two ways: first is literally just accidents where people press a button or something like that or mis-read a signal on a computer screen.
This there literally dozens of examples of this almost happening in the cold war where someone sitting in front of a computer computer screen thought that they saw that the US had launched missiles at them or that russia had launched missiles at the US, and almost press the button to launch back only to find out that it was a computer glitch and nothing it actually happened.
So this is an example of a situation in which accidental launch can happen.
Secondly though, it's just like brinksmanship.
So something like the cuban missile crisis, where people are on the verge of using missiles as a threat and both sides almost actually press the button and do this because there is this brinksmanship happening.
This is obviously a pretty high harm, lots of people die in a situation where a nuclear weapon is launched, there's massive amounts of suffering.
Radiation creates long term suffering for generations to come.
This is something worth avoiding.
Third independent argument is environmental harms created by nuclear weapons programs.
So things like radiation, pollution, literally just the workers in the facilities and the cancer that they contract from these things.
These are massive tolls of suffering that exist in the world, where it is unclear what the benefits of having nuclear weapons are.
Things like the environment, it's so hard to actually fix in the long term, because soil is a radiator for huge amounts of time and even the human suffering, just the toll on the people working in these plants is a thing that has to be weighed in this round against benefits that are, again, intangible and unlikely to materialize ever.
The fourth independent point is regarding security.
So I think this is pretty important because it's worth recognizing that the ostensible benefit of having a nuclear weapons program is that it dis-incentivizes uses of force.
That it makes it easier for people to just basically strong arm other groups into backing down and not engaging in acts of force, because you're able to leverage the threat of nuclear weapons.
So, I think one problem with this argument certainly is the arguments already demonstrated about why brinksmanship often can risk the actual use of nuclear weapons, so that's a harm in and of itself.
But secondly, and I think a lot more importantly, is that the use of nuclear weapons to disincentivize force is not inherently a good thing.
The US for example, is notorious in using its military might, that is largely a product of its nuclear arsenal, to get smaller countries, that have often done very little wrong, to back down without a fight, right?
So like for example this was done several times in the middle east.
It was done in iran in the seventies, it was done in iraq in two thousand four with minimal resistance at a point that it took like only a couple, like a year or two for this entire country to just crumble and like saddam hussein to be found in like a hole in the ground.
Right?
I think it's important to recognize that hegemons using these as a battering ram to get people to back down, it's necessarily unfair and it entrenches systems of imperialism that might be easier to break down in a world where there wasn't such massive asymmetry in power between great powers and the developing world.
Proud to propose.