I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should further exploit nuclear power.
Our first independent point is the waste generated by nuclear power.
So, government briefly addresses this and essentially waves it off by being like, " oh, well, you know, yucca mountain, for example.
You can just like hide it deep in the mountain and it won't create any issues. "
So I think there's a couple problems regarding nuclear waste that aren't addressed by side government.
There are, to begin with, extreme environmental harms.
This is something that because it is radioactive waste can, you know, damage local wildlife, fauna and flora, that sort of thing, and undermine the integrity of local ecosystems.
This can have pretty wide-reaching effects.
Even the damage to one individual species can throw the balance of an entire ecosystem out of sync and can lead to huge amounts of, you know, degradation of plant life, can lead to the extinction of local species.
So we think that even mild effects on the environment can blossom out into significant harms.
Is not only undermines aesthetic things, like the beauty of the environment, but also if you believe in like animal rights, for example, and just believe that things that like experience like pleasure and suffering should, you know, be afforded more pleasure than suffering, this is a significant issue.
The problem with the yucca mountain defense is twofold: one, we can't store all of our waste in yucca mountain, and two, there isn't a lot of political will to create these sort of like high-expense situations.
Yucca mountain is unique in that it was easy to sort of find like hollowed-out spaces in it to store the nuclear waste, but that's generally not an option.
Usually, you can't just like drill deep into the core of a mountain and store all your waste in there.
Usually what happens is that this waste gets buried somewhere underground or they just kind of make like a site for it, like you would a landfill, and you destroy that area.
So not only are the environmental harms then going to materialize but I think secondly, and probably even more importantly, these harms are generally internalized by poor minority communities.
One particularly prevalent example was the dumping of nuclear waste in sierra blanca in texas, which was a primarily latino community.
These actions that disproportionately harm poor individuals, who are often politically incapable of fighting these types of things, makes it such that those who are already experiencing disproportionate suffering from an economic perspective are then forced to endure the brunt of the issues with nuclear power while others reap the benefits.
This in essence, then, is a significant issue that we think, on face, makes it problematic to engage in nuclear power.
Our second independent point is that nuclear power opens the door for the increased proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Obviously, the technology for developing these two things has a certain degree of similarities, and at the point where things like missile programs are difficult to crack down on, it is often easy to conduct a nuclear program in secret.
Highly enriched uranium that's necessary for weapons grade , you know, nuclear weapons is often not that much more enriched than than than than power-based uranium, on the basis that the enriching process is exponential.
So it's easier to make the leap then if you proliferate the incidence of , you know, actual nuclear power.
And as such we think, then, because nuclear weapons are particularly problematic in their ability to wreak significant havoc, and also incredibly problematic in their ability to give disproportionate powers to unstable regimes, we think that there is significant harm on a worldwide basis created by the proliferation of this type of power.
Note that most of the stable regimes already have nuclear power so it is unlikely that the proliferation will continue giving more nuclear power to people who, you know, are not worth worrying about.
Proud to oppose.