I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban racial profiling.
Generally speaking we would define racial profiling as just when police officers or other law enforcement make decisions on who to stop and search based on their racial identity.
We would also categorize this as other identifiers such as gender or age and we would also say that the mechanism for the ban is just going to be basically instituting federal rules and regulations that this cannot be done and that we would you know investigate departments that violate those rules.
Three independent points: first is that racial profiling is ineffective.
So real threats like, terrorists for example, generally evade these types of searches pretty easily.
But just sending like women or children or the small amount of white people, for example, that are in their organizations as people to carry out some of these attacks.
Generally speaking this is effective because if you implement racial profiling you are actively not looking at these people.
And at that point racial profiling actually becomes counterproductive.
But secondly, it drains time and like secondly under this point, it drains time and resources that that is any action taken by law enforcement is a zero sum decision.
You only have so many employees, you only have so many resources, you only have so many scanners and what have you, so any decision you make on who to look into based on their racial identity is something that you are forsaking in exchange for, you know, a different, probably more effective identity.
Like I don't know criminal history or something like that or any number of identity identifiers that you can come up with.
Our second independent point is that the policy is not just.
So it's worth recognizing that obviously just because you are like a minority doesn't make you guilty of a crime.
Like I think that is a fairly intuitive statement.
Even if there is a disproportionate skew, it is largely the product of other identifiers like you know historic oppression through poverty and things like that.
So we'd say that this is unjust in two ways: first is that in most countries we believe that protections for the innocent are a thing that matters.
That generally speaking this is something that we value.
It is often said in like a lot of western liberal democracies that we would rather you know free a thousand guilty people before we send one innocent to jail.
Generally speaking then we put a pretty high premium on insuring that innocent people don't have to endure the burdens of being randomly searched.
Given that it seems intuitive that racial profiling is unjust.
But secondly, it's unjust because it's a product of historic oppression.
That is that generally speaking the reason why I say like crime rates are higher among like african americans is a product of the fact that they were historically put into positions of poverty that forced them to resort to lives of crime.
So generally speaking we think it is bad to punish like the fact that you were oppressed with like further oppression.
Our third independent point is backlash.
So we would say this is really important because it justifies narratives surrounding oppression.
That is when you were told by you know members of your race, I think isis is a really good example of this, that those people hate us and therefore we should attack them.
Proving that you hate them probably isn't a good way to stop the violence.
Like isis very routinely points to islamophobic US policy as a means by which to demonstrate that the west and the middle east are diametrically opposed forces and that they are at war.
I think beating back terrorism involves and beating back crime in general involves undermining the root causes by which people can be recruited into these lifestyles and into these organizations and one important step of that is ceasing to assume guilt based on somebody's skin color.
Proud to propose.