I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion, that we should abolish nuclear weapons.
A really repetitive theme of the gov seems to be that nuclear weapons cause mass suffering, and that if used, it will never result in good consequences.
I think this is reasonable, I don't think the purpose, of having these nuclear weapons programs, is to actually use the weapons.
Rather, they are a posturing mechanism and a posturing mechanism that creates a better global landscape, by decreasing the types of warfare, that also inflict massive suffering.
And when this is supplanted with posturing, we have a better world.
So, two independent points, first, mutually assured destruction is an effective means of ensuring peace.
So, the essential way that this works is that we have a group of countries, each in possession of nuclear weapons.
They are unwilling to go to war with one another then, because they understand that each of the other countries has this horrifying weapon, that could cause mass destruction.
Now, this is important, is that even if they're never going to use it, as a first strike, they would retaliate with their nuclear weapons, that they that another country launch theirs at them, and pretty much every country at this point has second strike capability, that they are able to fire back nuclear weapons, should they see that there are others incoming.
Because second strike capability exists, it is extremely unlikely that any country would ever initiate nuclear conflict.
This is shown by the fairly good track record we have of nuclear weapon usage, historically, that it is minimal, if nonexistent and as such, not nonexistent, there is no track record of using this against another nuclear power.
And this is for good reason, that it is highly disincentivize, and as a result the harm that is described by government is not actualized.
Our second independent point is that this form of muscle flexing is significantly preferable to the historic means, by which countries have engaged in conflict.
I think what happens here is that you supplant actual hand to hand combat, with more cold war tactics.
So, think the cold war between the US and russia, what could have escalated into a massive actual, like, normal, traditional war, was kept from doing so, because you had these weapons, because you had a direct disincentive to direct conflict between the two countries.
And as a result, all that actually like happened here was like, these, like, the satellite conflicts that were significantly smaller in scope, than what likely would have erupted between the US and russia, had they gone to war.
But secondly, I think it just decreases the instances of conflict.
So, recognize that most countries are fairly and justifiably frightened to actually engage in conflict with a nuclear power.
This is important, because it means that, generally speaking, you are not going to see these types of conflicts initiated, and that, generally speaking, smaller powers will be much more willing to engage in peaceful resolutions to conflict.
This, I think, is a significant reason why war has decreased in recent years, that there are less instances of it, because the size of the arsenal of the greater, like, at the large global players, is so immense, as to disincentivize actual combat.
As a result, we have a more peaceful world, one that is less affected by the ravages of war, and the mass suffering, that is inflicted by the horrible injuries and deaths that erupt from these conflicts.
Proud to oppose.