I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the double jeopardy defense.
I want to start this with an overview that sort of responds to the broad thesis of gov's argument that their primary concern is , you know, the capacity to enforce the rule of law and , specifically, administering justice.
I don't think this should be the primary purpose of the criminal justice system.
Rather, I think the utmost concern of the criminal justice system should be protecting the rights of the accused.
The reason for this is fairly straightforward: that the criminal justice system really exists to protect the innocent, that we don't inflict harm on the guilty just for the sake of inflicting harm.
We do it because we don't want innocent people to be harmed by the actions of guilty individuals.
The problem then is that we should take every possible precaution to ensure that the criminal justice system itself does not inflict harm upon innocent individuals, and as such, we give a large amount of latitude to accused individuals who have not been proven guilty yet in the criminal justice system in order to ensure that we inflict minimal damage among upon innocent individuals.
This then brings me into two independent points, the first being that we need to limit government action from a principled perspective and as such, the thesis of, you know, what is brought forward by side government fails.
The reason why we take particular concern with actions put forward by the government is that the government is, by definition, the most powerful actor in the state.
So free speech, for example, often does not apply to private institutions.
A college, for example, is often free to limit the speech of people on its campus.
The government, however, is not.
And we take these extreme precautions with actions taken by the government simply because, as is explained in in side government's case, there is a need for the government or the government has the capacity to , you know, basically pass laws and make whatever changes they desire within a certain perspective.
Given that, we want to ensure that the government doesn't abuse that adverse amount to power, and we think that protections like double jeopardy are particularly important to ensuring that abuse does not occur.
This brings me into the second point which is: what specifically what specific types of abuse can be brought forward by the double by abolishing the double jeopardy protection?
So, what essentially happens here is that the powerful become capable of wearing down individuals that they want to press damages against.
So, for example, you know, and this, for what it's worth, applies to way more than just the government, like private actors as well, like wealthy firms, for example, can also engage in this abuse of power.
So if I'm a firm that, you know, wants to sue a person for whatever, and I go to court over this, that person might have, you know, the money on hand to hire a lawyer to defend them the first time around, and then they and then they succeed because, you know, let's just say the case is like super obvious and this individual is able to stare down goliath and win.
The problem then is that if you don't have double jeopardy, this case can just be relitigated until the the weaker actor just like runs out of money to defend themselves in court.
I think particularly with instances where either firms like want to send a message and the message holds intrinsic value to them, or where there's just a lot at stake in the case, there is an acting incentive to pursue this course of action essentially.
Governments, likewise, can do this with like with their deep pockets and their outsize influence in courts.
So we think it's important, then, to protect people from being relitigated for the same crime when that crime has been when a verdict on that crime has been found.
Given that, proud to oppose.