I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should get rid of the olympics.
Three independent points, the first of which is that the olympics represents the highest level of sporting.
And as such, it's important to maintain the integrity of a centralized event which we recognize that this is the peak.
So, first I want to establish what the alternative is to the olympics, and that's largely a disjunct network of lots of sports receiving their own sort of international championships.
This I think, to begin with, is problematic primarily because, as government elucidates, there are certain sports that often, you know, don't receive their due and don't receive credit for how difficult they are.
The problem is that all the structural incentives the olympics has for deprioritizing those sports exist even more so on what is essentially a free market of different disjunct markets, that is, that nobody will watch something like shot put if it's not on the olympics, but rather just at its own thing.
So given that then, we think there is a unique benefit to having a centralized place where the highest level of sporting can occur not only, then, from a fairness perspective, in terms of giving certain sports there due, but also from the perspective of having a unified front at which supporting is recognized at the highest level.
We think there is significantly a cultural impact in that you have such like an elevated platform on which sporting is honored at the international level.
And we think particularly that the reason that we find sporting so interesting is that we see these feats of the human body administered in such incredible ways, and specifically the platform that the olympics provides is one of the only real platforms that can provide , you know, such widespread distribution essentially and access to these incredible feats of nature.
Our second independent point is that specifically hosting the olympics can benefit host cities.
Government tells you that a lot of the times it doesn't benefit them, that it can, you know, hurt the infrastructure, that it can undermine the economic stability of the country.
We think that there are a couple benefits to begin this though with.
For example, this can provide political support for developing infrastructure.
This can , you know, certainly increase tourism and people frequenting the businesses of the host city during the time the olympics are going on.
And also it can provide prestige, that is, you know, it this intangible thing that's obviously tough to weigh in debate rounds, but this is something that matters to the individual cities.
And this is what I think is particularly important about this is that the cities consent into hosting the olympics.
This is something that they agree to do and want to do.
At that point, then, we think that harms on the cities shouldn't be viewed from the perspective of just banning the olympics.
There're individual cities that probably shouldn't have made the decision to host the olympics but we think that, broadly speaking, we should allow people to decide the host to the olympics if we want.
The response to a couple individual cities making bad financial decisions shouldn't be to disband the competition, it should be for cities to reevaluate the perspective from which they analyze whether or not it is a good idea to host the olympics.
Our third and final independent point is that the olympics provide a unique opportunity for athletes.
Gov takes issue with the fact that the olympics are amateur sports.
I think the problem with this line of argumentation is that there usually isn't a professional circuit for most of these sports.
Swimming, for example, doesn't have a well-funded professional circuit in the way that like basketball or baseball does.
Given that then, there is usually little opportunity to turn such incredible dedication and skill into financial returns and to make a living off of it.
The olympics, however, uniquely provide the benefit of people receiving things like advertising deals and sponsorship benefits because of the publicity that the olympics receive.
Given that then, we think it's an uniquely important opportunity for athletes to, post-olympics, turn their success into something that can give them capital.
On the normal circuit we think that amateurism is still prolific, yet there is no opportunity to transform that into capital.
This, then, is preferable from the athlete's perspective.
Proud to oppose.