I'm proud to oppose the motion that assisted suicide should be a criminal offense.
Our first independent point is that this is something that individuals can reasonably consent into.
I want to establish two things here.
The first is that people are in the best positions to make individual decisions for themselves.
So there are obvious potential benefits to going through with physician-assisted suicide.
Often people that have terminal illnesses experience significant amounts of pain throughout their last months of living, that's worth avoiding, but also there's huge financial cost concern occur with this.
And if your death is inevitable anyway a lot of reasonable people might decide that rather than saddle my family members with huge amounts of medical bills for something that was inevitable anyway, I might as well just end it now and mitigate that suffering.
At the point where there are perfectly reasonable decisions to decide to go through with physician-assisted suicide then we think that this is a right that people have to make that decision.
This is because people and not the government and not even their doctors understand what what's best for them.
I as an individual have a distinct set of preferences that is not identical to any other person.
We all value different you know ends and goals differently, and as such my individual calculus of how I feel about one thing versus another is unique to me and as such I uniquely should be in charge of deciding where my preferences lie on that scale.
Then we hear like this line of side government that specifically you can't make this consent decision because it's impossible to have conformed incent informed consent on your deathbed.
So I want to establish something quickly that I think is important to this debate.
The way in which physician-assisted suicide works is that there is a rigorous process for ensuring that the individual actively consents into the decision.
So this is something where you have to get approval from a doctor, you have to get approval from a licensed mental hair health professional usually a family member or something have to sign-off on it insuring like basically signalling that you're of sound mind and body like this is something that people or sound mind at least like this is something that you don't allow like senile people to do, you don't allow people with serious mental health issues to do like there's strict regulations on when you can go through with this.
So we do understand that but there are rigorous rigorous legal structures that ensure that this would be a totally reasonable thing for people to be able to take the active decision to go through with.
The second thing I want to go about is just beating back some of the claims that government brings up because I think there are two particularly egregious ones that deserve a specific line by line response.
So first we hear this argument out of government about like insurance issues and that specifically there's a financial incentive for insurance companies to like have you continue like have you die early so that you don't cash in on the insurance benefits.
I think there's actually two important problems with this.
The first is that insurance companies don't make the decision on whether or not you die.
Like they can't make your health care decisions, the doctor makes that decision.
So like I don't know your ex might also have a perverse incentive for you to die early but that doesn't mean that that matters like the government doesn't have to account for that perverse incentive because that perverse incentive can't materialize into an active change in the decision making calculus.
But secondly we think that this is a ridiculous argument because the doctor actually has the opposite incentive, the doctor wants you to live longer because then you get like billed more money for being on life support for six months.
We think if anything the person that's actually in the decision making position has an active incentive not to go through what this unless it's really obviously what's best for your health.
The second thing they bring up is this argument about like the afterlife being unknowable and like maybe you're going to eternal damnation.
Look, two things on this.
One we think the individual can make that decision for themselves whether or not they want to risk whatever is on the other side, but secondly who cares what's on the other side because it's non-unique like the afterlife could be horribly awful but you're going to die one day anyway like I don't see why this makes a difference because you experience that afterlife on either side of the house.
Proud to oppose.