I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish the two-party system.
Our first independent point is that the coalition building that gov touts towards the end of their speech undermines the stability of the governing structure.
So I think there's really two ways in which this happens.
The first is the formation process.
One good example of this is the recent election in the UK but before that also the irish election demonstrated that often there is a lot of difficulty in forming these coalitions because if you buy sorta governments proposition that you're gonna get this you know beautiful multi-party system with lots of different viewpoints represented in very distinct parties, then you're just going to wind up with a system that essentially has a lot of parties that have irreconcilable differences.
People will be unwilling to join coalitions with one another even if they're ideologically proximate because they specifically campaign on the basis that even that party that's like an inch to their left can't be voted for when putting comparison to us.
At that point then the same structural disincentives to compromise that exist in a two-party system such as how democrats and republicans both work together still exist but because there's more than two parties there will almost always be a system where no one wants to join into partnership to form an actual governing majority.
That in turn means that there's a lot of instability on the front end but there's also instability throughout the process, that is after the coalition is formed because there's always a risk of it fracturing.
This articulates itself in one of two ways.
Either one, the coalition decides to take bold stances on things at least one party does and as such the coalition falls apart, or the coalition decides they don't want to fall apart they want to maintain stability but in that case they are often held from doing anything truly you know monumental or truly radical because they never you know want to upset their coalition partner.
We think this is problematic then because it means that governments are often capable of dealing with the most important issues in society.
Our second independent point is that these coalitions are almost inherently undemocratic.
Generally the way that these parliamentary systems will work is that there will be a handful of parties that are really big and get a lot of votes and then there'll be lots of tiny parties and the big parties, usually the biggest party post-election, will be the one that makes the government and they will decide what little parties they want to bring on in order to create a governing majority and block out the other big party.
So this creates a problem then because it means that this tiny party winds up getting a hugely outsize influence.
Look to the united kingdom for example right now where the tories you know got a decent amount of votes and were the largest party but didn't quite have a majority so they had to enter a coalition with the democratic unionist party which is extremely extremely far-right.
And eventhough these parties are small, they have a big influence on government policy because the larger party has to keep them you know in the coalition to ensure they can continue governing.
As such, this massively massively conservative party winds up you know not actually having you know the democratic unionist party winds up with a lot of power that they don't deserve because not that many people actually voted for them and as such you wind up with a system that isn't representative of the will of the public.
Our final independent point is that a two party system creates clear counterfactuals.
We think that in this multi-party system there's often incentives to just be like a little to the side of one other party in order to distinguish yourself.
In ireland for example there's like sinn fein and people before profit which are both very far-left and very difficult to parse out.
As such we think this leads to a confused electorate that is often disillusioned by the fact that they feel these different parties are almost meaningless because of how similar they are to one another.
We think it's preferable then to have a system where there are two parties that have like they're clear lines in the sand and their clear policy positions so that you can make a decision based on like actual concrete differences between the parties.
Proud to oppose.