I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should protect whistleblowers.
Three independent points, first: national security.
So we think that the types of secrets that are often being grappled with by whistleblowers are going to be things that are a pretty significant issue.
Government, for example, uses the example of edward snowden.
These are things that matter a lot.
We think that even if edward snowden scales lower on the list of, you know, whistleblowers that have created national security issues, his revelation still created some pretty significant problems in terms of like knowledge of like NSA policy, knowledge of the sort of information that we were looking for.
Like, this was significantly important information for the NSA to keep secret because it essentially showed our hand to enemies of the united states, like, " look, this is what we're doing.
This is what we're looking for, " and, by extension, showed this is how you can get around us.
Even more extreme examples are, say, the just careless dated dumps of like julian assange or chelsea manning, where just like massive piles of information were just like callously dumped onto this like public server, without really combing through and making sure that these were, you know, things that should be dumped, things like locations of bases or security protocol or names of undercover agents.
The types of things that were leaked through these dumps were things that actually harmed or at least jeopardized the lives of individuals.
And at that point then, we think that there is a significant impetus for ensuring that this information isn't dealt with so callously or carelessly.
Our second independent point is that we think that it is less likely to resolve the issues at heart when like a whistleblower does it in this way.
So what we mean by this is that usually whistleblowing generates a large media circus.
Look to the aftermath of any one of these whistleblowing incidents to see just sort of how the information was treated.
Often through both the partisan media cycle and through the partisan political process, there's a lot of distorting of facts, attempts to sort of get one over on the other political side, to sort of get the biggest leak when you're a media organization, any number of things that wind up distorting the facts and as a result, shaping public opinion.
We think this is less likely to reform the actual abuses that are present in government than an internal effort, that is, you know, if your superior is the one committing an abuse, you go over their head and you talk to their superior.
You try to work your way up the chain of command.
Dealing with these things internally, through the government bureaucracy, are much more likely to basically result in positive results insofar as you can ensure, like, look , you know, you can have this conversation calmly, internally, deal with the decision-makers, hash out the minutiae of the policy and not have the entire thing distorted by, you know, media actors or political actors.
Our third and final independent point, though, is that reform often becomes reliant on the likability of the whistleblower when this becomes a public issue.
So we think comparing the cases of edward snowden and chelsea manning is a good way of looking at this.
Edward snowden resulted in a lot of public support for the quote curtailing of NSA abuses, largely because, at least at first, before he started being like julian assange, he was a fairly likable person.
He personified this like rebel outsider attitude that americans like a lot.
Chelsea manning was less popular.
Not only was chelsea manning not very personable on television and that sort of thing, chelsea manning was seen as betraying the army, which obviously is different than like a federal bureaucracy.
And also because chelsea manning is transgender, she was seen as , you know, basically someone that was never going to get the support of a large percentage of the population.
As such, the sort of abuses detailed by chelsea manning in the the war in afghanistan, were never really addressed or discussed in the same way as meaningfully as the abuses that were revealed by edward snowden.
We think this is a fundamentally problematic way to reform government processes, and we significantly prefer internal systematic approaches that are less likely to be based on like how likable the leaker is.
Proud to oppose.