I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban racial profiling.
Our first independent point is that specifically the type of targeting that government is very concerned about is actually quite accurate.
So we think that particular forms of crime are often closely associated with racial groups.
The reason for this largely has to do with cyclical poverty.
So often racism in society means that specific groups of like specific races, like particularly minorities, so like african americans for example, are subjected to you know poverty on a cyclical familial basis by virtue of the fact that if you were born in poverty it is very difficult to escape it.
You know this is due to a lot of reasons.
Including such as for example disparities in education which limit your ability to find gainful employment later in life.
All of this then means that individual racial groups are disproportionately likely to commit crimes, and we think the primary obligation the criminal justice system, regardless of larger societal injustices, should always be to protect those who have not committed crimes from becoming victims of crimes.
At that point then we think racial profiling is justified at the point where it is like statistically true that crime rates amongst non white individuals are significantly higher than among white individuals.
Even if this is the product of societal injustice, the criminal justice system shouldn't be concerned with correcting these historical issues.
You know that can be a job of you know social welfare programs and things like that and redistributive economics.
We think that the criminal justice system should focus itself with you know insuring that innocent people just aren't harmed.
This then means that a more accurate criminal justice system is more capable of fulfilling that role of ensuring that people don't fall victim to crime.
If you're for example at airport security and you are just you know more capable of you know rooting out for example someone that's intending on taking a bomb onto a plane, and that person is disproportionately likely to be of middle eastern descent, we think that it is reasonable to engage in that profiling, on the basis that you are reducing the statistical likelihood that that person will actually you get away with the crime.
Our second independent point though is that we think that the legal mechanisms that would be introduced by this ban would be counterproductive.
So racial profiling is of course ridiculously subjective.
There isn't like a single way that you can point to it and just be like: " oh that was racial profiling ".
Especially because it's a thought process that is internally you know generated.
It's very often that you're gonna see concrete evidence, like written down or something, of racial profiling.
At that point then the only real way to crack down on this is just sort of to look at like macro trends of individual departments and be like: " oh okay, well this police department arrested like a lot of black people, so we're just going to say that that was racial profiling ".
And you can like obviously compare this against the mean or whatever, but broadly that's the way it's going to be done.
This is a problem then for two reasons: first is that we think it's principally unfair on that basis that, as mentioned earlier, this just legitimately is the way that crime statistics break down.
So we think this is an unfair way of insuring that you know you actually maintain these structures.
But maintain with the parameters of these legal codes.
But I think the second problem with this is that it actively incentivizes police departments to rather than like cracking down on , you know, internal racism in that apartment, it just incentivizes them to arrest lots of white people in order to balance out their numbers.
So I don't think this really does much to help minorities then, rather I think it just creates a perverse incentive structure wherein you know police departments are just more likely to try to balance out their numbers and avoid prosecution by inflicting more harms on the communities that didn't used to.
That said, I don't think that equality, at the point where you're just gaining it by just increasing the amount of aggregate harm generated, is necessarily worth it.
Proud to oppose.