I'm proud to support the motion that we should disband nasa.
Two independent points.
The first is that nasa as an institution has fairly low cost efficacy and when we're talking about public institutions that use taxpayer money it's important to understand that cost efficiency.
First I want to explain why cost efficiency matters in the public sector.
This is probably intuitive but we only have so much money in terms of tax revenue and that has to be apportioned over tons of diverse interests, everything from welfare to small business investment to nasa and at the end of the day we should be analyzing our government expenditures from the perspective of how much good does this do relative to the number of dollars we spend.
That is, if I took all the money that goes into nasa for whatever benefit I derive from having a well funded nasa and poured all that money to say food stamps or into you know housing vouchers or something else would that be a better use of the money.
And it seems like the answer is yes.
While nasa historically was a driver of innovation and historically was well known for having a good multiplier effect, that doesn't seem to be the case anymore.
With a world that is less focused on these really easily you know visible goals things like I want to put a person on the moon stuff like that we think that there has been a departure then from our ability to take nasa's expeditions and convert them into something that is economically viable or even for that matter socially viable.
Things like sending out the you know mars rover whatever are obviously scientifically useful but we think a, on the margins it is probably less useful than other forms of government expenditures but b, we're not particularly convinced that this is something that is actually something that needs to be done by the public sector.
And this brings me cleanly into my second independent point, which is that nasa is crowding out the private sector.
We have developing, especially in the united states, a private sector for space exploration that is extremely promising.
Companies like elon musk's space x seem to be making rapid advancements in the field of being able to privatize space exploration.
We think that this is useful for two reasons.
First, the private sector has clear cut incentives to be competitive and thus make better products.
We think the future of space exploration is something that is more about how we can specifically take things like going out into space or going to other planets and market that to individual people on the ground rather than abstract scientific observations.
I think what the future looks like is more okay we know what mars is like now what we need to do is have some sort of way to make that beneficial for individual people on the ground and we think the private sector is uniquely equipped to do that.
But secondly, the private sector is useful because it doesn't have to deal with the bureaucracy of the public sector.
The public sector is often weighed down not just internally by sort of what you would generally refer to as administrative bloat but also by competition within the government.
We think that unlike in the private sector wheqe competition drives people to do what is best for the economy as a whole by simply bettering themselves, public sector competition forces administrators to play each other down and minimize the importance of other departments in an effort to secure more funding.
What does this look like?
So we think that in budgeting processes this is pretty clear just in a hearing you're essentially badmouthing another department we also think there are more subtle examples, one from the challenger disaster actually showed that the that nasa buckled to pressure from the EPA basically because the EPA was a bigger administration it could just bully nasa into getting rid of these like freon insulators that the scientific data behind their their environmental harm caused was like relatively shaky but what wound up happening then was that because of these administrative and public sector pressures nasa wound up caving to the EPA.
We think that sort of activity's a lot less likely to happen in the private sector where there's less integration between individual institutions and as a result less leverage for one institution to exert its will unjustly over another and for what it's worth to the harm of the average citizen on the ground.
Proud to support.