I'm proud to support the motion that we should abolish IQ tests.
Three independent points.
First, that they are fundamentally and methodologically inaccurate.
The reason we believe this is true is that IQ tests are built on faulty science.
So the types of psychology that IQ tests are rooted in our flawed in two ways.
First, is that they are flawed in their perception of what matters.
We think that for different purposes and for different jobs there are different skill sets and different metrics of thinking that matter more such as say critical thinking, such as memory skills, such as I don't know like any number of other ways in which you could represent intelligence.
These definitions of intelligence are inherently subjective in often specific to individual types of context.
So for example, teachers might want to be able to have higher critical thinking skills whereas like say people whose jobs are more memory based, might want more of that.
We think then that there is subjectivity in defining intelligence that is not reflected in something that presumes itself to be objective and empirical but secondly, we think that even the ways in which you measure these things are inherently arbitrary.
Like the fact that like I don't know if you can like find a pattern with some shapes demonstrates your critical thinking skills is one of literally thousands of ways to measure that sort of thing.
The fact then that some people are better at one type of way of measuring critical thinking versus another way of measuring critical thinking means that there's inherent arbitrariness in that metric that isn't reflected in your test score.
We think then, that these scores are always going to be a bad proxy for intelligence.
So even if you think we should be looking for this type of intelligence, we're probably not finding it through these tests rather, we're simply misleading employers and other agencies into thinking that they're able to find it objectively.
Our second independent point is that there is a cultural issue with these intelligence tests.
We think that often there are examples of say for example white americans generally males using intelligence test to justify the notion that they are inherently more intelligent than say blacks or women.
Now these are obviously rooted in pseudo science and often while there are certainly examples of like just overt racism or sexism demonstrated in the way these tests are written, there are often cultural differences that are used to create these differences artificially.
So for example, the language that a test is conducted in or concepts that might be more familiar to like rich white americans as opposed to like poorer americans of color as such, the task can implicitly discriminate against people based on identity lines that aren't representative of actual intellect.
Our third and final independent point though is that intellect itself isn't something that should be tested for because these tests necessarily facilitate discrimination.
We think discrimination against people that are less conventionally intelligent, that is, intelligence defined along the lines of what we construe it to be, are often discriminated against in society.
They're ridiculed, they are the butt of jokes, they're often experiencing employment discrimination, and we think that the problem with all of this is that intelligence is arbitrarily defined.
As I mentioned earlier, there are lots of ways you can measure it.
We think that the fact that some people measure one way as opposed to another always means that there is arbitrary discrimination against people that are intelligent in different ways.
We think at best this is ableism or at worst this is ableism but at best this is just like probably a bad way to run your system and determine who should have what roles.
If you think that intelligence tests matter for the military because people are put in charge of like really expensive and destructive weapons, you want accuracy.
I think subjective measures like interviews are always going to do a better job than foe objectivism.
Proud to propose.