I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban temporary employment.
Our first independent point is that temporary employment is very beneficial to the individuals who gain temporary employment.
Specifically, we think it's facilitative to better workforce reentry.
So, gov spends a lot of time being concerned essentially about how these jobs have like lower benefits, lower wages for workers, that sort of thing, and they're they're essentially expendable.
I think the problem in the counterfactual that gov never fails to , you know, actually articulate and recognize is that these are generally workers who are going to have difficulty finding employment full-time for one reason or another.
Like no one walks into a temp agency because that's their dream job.
They walk in to temp agencies because they've made active efforts to find work elsewhere and they're having trouble gaining employment.
This can be for any number of reasons.
You know, people can be having trouble finding their first job.
This can be people who were, you know, fired for some reason and under, you know, poor circumstances.
These can be people who went to prison and are having trouble reintegrating into the job market.
There are lots of reasons why these people might have difficulty finding traditional employment at a full-time rate.
We think then that specifically temp agencies and seasonal employment and other types of work specifically assist individuals who can't be met by the general incentives of the broader job market.
But specifically, we think that this type of employment is also a is specifically a path upwards, that is, that if someone, for example, post-prison is having trouble reintegrating into society and needs temp employment to get job in the short term, they can use it for resume building or for, you know, job recommendations, that sort of thing.
So people can use the work that they find at a temp agency to then get gainful employment at a full-time rate.
We think that banning this, then, just eradicates this lever that people would generally have, and the employment discrimination that often plagues lots of individuals in our society would become much more systemic because now there's no like ramp upwards into the job market.
Our second independent point is that even if you buy all the arguments about how like the wages are low and that sort of thing, we think that this just yields like a better economy.
So the counterfactual world that gov seems to desire is one where all of these people are hired full-time.
I'll get to a moment in a moment to why that's never going to happen, but even if everyone was hired full-time and just given like these standard wages and everything, we think it would have disastrous effects on the economy.
Because the way the job market works is they're currently hiring pretty much as many people as they can right now.
Firms generally want to hire people in order to ensure that they can meet the demands of their customers best they can.
So when you have a system then that artificially inflates the number of people that are working in the job market, that usually means that firms have to deal with lots of overhead costs, because they're paying their employees more money.
And as such, the price of goods go up.
That, in turn, hurts people because now they're paying, you know, more at the counter to get the same goods, but it also disproportionately hurts poorer people who spend a larger percentage of their income on consumption.
All of this means, then, the economy set up by side government's pipe dream is disastrous in and of itself, and even the end they're trying to achieve is problematic.
Our third and final independent point, though, is that the job market actually shrinks under side government.
So you actually don't get this dreamland where all of these people working for temp agencies now have full-time jobs.
And the reason for this is that there are specific reasons why individual firms want temporary employees.
Seasonal work on farms, for example, can't magically turn into full-time jobs.
It has to be seasonal.
So if you ban the seasonal work, then they just try to find other ways around it, but that generally doesn't mean hiring like the type of workers they normally would've.
Likewise with, say, an insurance agency that wants to hire a temp, they're just not going to, you know, be able to pay for a full-time position, so they'll just have to take the loss and not have that position filled if they can't get a temp.
At that point, then, we think there're bigger harms on the job market, and unemployment actually increases on side government.
Proud to oppose.