As opposition will surely explain, there is a generally recognized right to self-harm.
We think that the ability for one to consent into harms that they internalize themselves, though, is limited by a number of factors, and as side government, we will explain today what these standards are and why they are met and therefore, why homeopathy ought be banned.
First, we think that government is justified in intervention and banning when there are externalities borne by other individuals.
We think there are two instances in which this plays out in homeopathy.
First is through children and other dependents of individuals who subscribe to homeopathy.
We think that these people have to undergo significant health harms through their lack of access to proper medicine as a result of the fact that their parents or other guardians have forced them to consent into or have forced them to undergo this system that isn't properly addressing their medical needs.
As a result of this, individuals with life-threatening illnesses don't receive proper treatment and are, therefore, significantly harmed in a way that they don't have meaningful control over.
We therefore think that because these harms are by individuals that didn't consent into the system, the the government is extremely justified in banning these practices so as to protect those who didn't meaningfully consent.
Furthermore, though, we think that there are externalities borne upon taxpayers and population at large when there are health harms burdened by the individuals who did meaningfully consent into homeopathy.
We think this is true because in most western countries, there is a general expectation that the state is responsible for your health in some regards.
Usually this takes place through some sort of state-run health care system, but we think there are any number of other ways in which this is internalized.
Given that, when you have people that are going to undergo significantly greater health harms than they normally would have under a proper medicinal system, you're going to have a much larger burden on your taxpayers as a result of the fact they are not properly being cared for on their own time.
This, in turn, means that there are externalities borne by people that, again, did not consent into those harms and consent into the ways in which this affected their lives.
The second standard that we would like to apply today's motion is coercion and why the government is justified in intervening and banning a naturally coercive system.
We think that homeopathy is predicated on a misinformation campaign, one that seeks to give people an alternative understanding of how medicine works, that is not rooted in scientific information.
Given this, we think there are two harms actually instituted upon the people that nominally consent into homeopathy.
First, we think there are financial harms on them in that homeopathy is generally quite expensive and overcharged by virtue of the fact that it is in: a, limited quantity, but b, is generally run by individuals with ulterior motives.
Secondarily, we think that there are health harms, as previously explained, because these individuals aren't seeking proper medical treatment for their illnesses.
Beyond the fact that any individual that is consenting into homeopathy is necessarily being harmed by this form of coercion, we also think that this is something that is necessarily borne even harder by those most disadvantaged within society, such as poorer individuals, because of the poorer educational access and other resources that are generally less accessible for the poorest members of society.
As a result, those worst off, those that would be most adversely affected by these systems, are going to be the ones most exposed to those systems, namely, homeopathy, and as a result, we think the government is justified in intervening in such a way that protects their best interests.
Proud to propose.