I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban gambling.
Three independent points, first is autonomy.
So recognize that autonomy is something that is quite important to the human construct of what rights are.
That is that generally speaking, our notions of self worth and our basic understanding of humanity is rooted in the idea that people have freedom to do things that they find to be enjoyable.
Generally, our understanding of what is good and what is bad is rooted in pain and pleasure that is when happy when people are happy that's good and when people are sad that's bad.
But the best actor to determine what can make an individual happy is usually the individual.
So it's important then to respect that individual's right to make their own decisions.
This includes gambling and I think broadly this is there's two reasons for this.
The first is that there are theoretical benefits to gambling.
And that even so far as those theoretical ban benefits exist, we should allow people to make the decision to try to access those benefits.
That can be anything from the payoff that does obviously happen sometime with gambling.
The skill games that are associated with gambling, so some people just you know play this as a game, and thirdly, sort of the emotion that is associated with gambling.
That there is sort of like a high you get off of this, that there's a rush associated with gambling.
And we think that that is sort of like a benefit, right?
I'll get into the stuff about addiction later on, but it is notable that the pleasure that you receive from engaging in that action is something tangible and that when people are happy, we think that's just a good thing.
But secondly, people should be able to get sent into harm.
Like even if you think that gambling is just this subjectively awful thing that leaves people in ruins, one, I don't think there is such thing as subjectivity, that my definition of harm does not have to be the same as yours, and is quite often not, and as a result it is unreasonable for us to define harm in such a blanket way.
But second, it's bad to restrict people from engaging in actions that they consent into, because generally they get pretty upset about it when you don't let them do it.
This leads me pretty well into my second point.
Which is that inevitably, when you ban this, a black market will develop.
So I think there's first off, a clear corollary to this happening historically in the twenties, thirties and even somewhat into the forties in america, lots of places banned organizing organized gambling and you have like lots of like underground gambling instead.
So like craps games being played in like sewers and abandoned churches and things like that.
So this does happen and generally speaking I think we can understand like the reasons why black markets are bad.
When you don't have the capacity to regulate the market, the harms that are described by side government are magnified.
So people who develop gambling addictions, for example, don't have mechanisms to seek treatment because the actual thing that they were engaging in was illegal so they'll fear retaliation if they actually like admit that they were gambling and that they have a problem.
Furthermore, the ways in which people lose money, those are more likely to happen because casinos are more capable of engaging in predatory practices when there's no regulatory agency looking over them.
So the black market's bad.
Our third independent point is that casinos provide jobs.
So a lot of struggling economies right now are looking to casinos as an example of how you can revitalize an economy that seemingly has nowhere else to go.
A good example of this is upstate new york which historically had lots of hotels and resorts and some manufacturing but that all went away when the commercial airline revolution made other destinations more attractive for tourists and when just sort of generally the collapse of american manufacturing meant that there was no need for the manufacturing that existed within upstate new york.
Casinos are a way that you can then attract a development and attract economic activity to your region being one of the few people willing to admit these institutions into your area.
This is important because for a lot of places it is their last opportunity to get some amount of economic revitalization.
Proud to oppose.