I'm proud to stand in proposition the motion that we should further exploit unconventional oil.
Three independent points.
First is that exploiting these sources of oil will increase the global supply.
So I think the reasoning for this is fairly intuitive.
Just you know if you are you know mining more sites, if you are extracting more crude oil and unconventional oil, you're just going to have more of it in the global supply.
This is two impacts.
First is that you decrease costs.
So obviously with there's scarcity in a market costs go up and there's a lot of ramifications to shortage in the oil supply.
You know this is something that goes into you know shipping industry which affects basically every good that we buy from other places.
This is something that fuels energy for our homes.
This is something that basically keeps our economy running and when it's prices go up that has a dramatic effects on the broader economy but secondly, it decreases oil insecurity.
I think a large portion of why there's a lot of fluctuation in oil prices is because there's a lot of fluctuation uncertainty over capacity to actually continue getting oil in the long term.
One driving factor of this is that instability in the middle east drives a lot of uncertainty and whether or not current oil wells will continue to be accessible in the long term.
Iran for example generates a lot of uncertainty surrounding this but I think another justification for why this is true is because there is uncertainty in the breath of how many places we could actually get oil from.
So when you introduce this new option, when you introduce unconventional oil, you have more certainty just by virtue of the fact that you have more sources to bring oil in from.
You're also just by virtue of the fact that the alberta tar sands are in canada also getting it from more traditionally stable country that is you know less likely to have political complications that would block you from having access to that oil but I think in the long term, this is just a better way of accessing a stable global supply of oil and that ensures some degree of price stability because there's investor confidence.
Our second independent point is that it increases capital for green researchers.
So I think a lot of what op is going to say is just talk about how like you know these tar sands and things like that just create a lot of pollutants.
So with regards to green technology, which I think is just sort of the solvency for the environmental problems with oil, a lot of it the research and the funding for this actually happens at oil companies because you know these energy companies like exxon mobil for example, understand that in the long term oil is a finite resource and that they will eventually need to transition to other things.
Obviously having more sources of oil increases the capital that these companies have on hand.
It increases their capacity to actually fund green research.
So I think in the long term you actually get quicker realization of these technologies when you increase the amount of capital flowing into the institutions that do the lion's share of the research.
Our third independent point is more just sort of a broadly accelerationist point and that's the political pressure that's generated by these new sources.
So there obviously is a large dust up from the environmentalist movement about these types of sources.
There is uncertainty regarding the amount of pollutants they generate.
There's a lot of hand wringing with just the fact that we're opening new wells.
So I think what happens here then, is that you increase the political pressure to divest from oil broadly when you have these easily attackable sources of oil.
Like if you take the interpretation that what we should be doing in the long term is getting off of oil and transitioning to green technology, I think that that's largely a political case that has to be made.
We have a lot of the technology that's necessary to do it already.
What we need is the political pressure and I think if you start getting oil from these sort of like dredges of the earth places that are pretty objectively bad for the environment, I think you actually get the political pressure necessary to make that leap.
So even if the short term has like an intrinsic harm in terms of the amount of pollutants, the long term looks a lot rosier because you were able to achieve the goal a lot quicker.
Proud to propose.