I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should cancel the social security tax.
Our first independent point is the rights of the elderly.
So what we mean by this, is that people who are incapable of continuing to work have a proactive right to not have to work in order to ensure their fiscal security.
We think that having access to a steady source of income, or just money in general, is key to accessing a lot of fundamental rights.
Health care, for example, which is disproportionately expensive for elderly people, is inaccessible if you don't have the money to pay for it.
Like by shelter and things like that are also inaccessible.
But we think that generally the way our society thinks about money is to say, you know, the state doesn't have to give handouts to people because they can work for a living and they can make that money themselves, therefore the state is justified in saying, you know, we don't have to give out a check to everybody each month.
The difference for elderly people, we think, is that they are not always capable of that, that often around you know, late fifties, early sixties, your body starts deteriorating in ways that make it physically impossible to do certain lines of work.
At that point then, we think it is completely justified for the state to intervene and allow people to collect checks in order to make up for the physical fact that they cannot be expected to support themselves wholly.
The problem then with getting rid of the social security tax, just in the abstract, I'll get to the alternatives in a bit, but in the abstract it means that the state is no longer securing that right.
That you are no longer creating a system that ensures that people will have access to revenue.
To be clear, we think that there are certainly people who can continue working later in life.
Those people are exceptional but they do exist.
We think though that those aren't the people affected by this debate.
We think who is affected by this debate are those people that are in the vast majority who do need this assistance to survive and pulling the rug out from under them constitutes a major rights violation.
Our second independent point though is that we don't believe the counter factual that was suggested by side government is actually feasible.
So specifically side government talks to you about this system for like a private fund where people have to mandatorily invest into that fund.
Then they'll get returns it's something like vanguard, they say.
I think there's two serious issues with this.
The first is that if the individual person is expected to make any sort of individual investment decisions about how their money is spent within that investment fund, that's an unreasonable expectation.
So what we mean by this is that you know people in general don't understand the financial market.
I know I certainly don't understand the financial market and I don't think it's a reasonable expectation to know every single elderly people every single elderly person in this country would know how to navigate the stock market.
At that point, we think it's fundamentally unfair to make someone's ability to survive their later years contingent on how well they understand the stock market.
But secondly, we think that there's an issue with this system in that it generates a lot of risk into the the retirement pool.
So what we mean by this is that because they're privately managed funds, two things happen: one, they're independently rotten, meaning that if one of these funds fails, like if the investments just bottom out and the person loses their money, there's no support network to bring them up.
Usually the way the the search security system works in the status quo is that because the investment is one collective pool some investments can fail but there's a broader pool to buoy the system.
We think that by segregating out the funds though you make it such that if one person's fund fails, that person's just screwed.
But secondly, we think that this is problematic because private firms are more willing to take risks because they have specific incentives to generate higher returns.
This in turn increases the likelihood that some people just won't half retirement savings.
Even if on the aggregate people get more money back we think it's bad when there's inequity in the system.
That is that some people benefit at the expense of others and specifically those others who are being , you know, essentially the losers in this system.
They're really losing because their entire retirement savings go down the drain under this scenario.
At that point then, we think the alternative suggested by gov is untenable.
Proud to oppose.