I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should end standardized testing.
Our first independent point is that we think that there is a structural need for comparisons in the in the school system.
So specifically what we mean by this is that there's a need to say, " this student is, you know, a good student who is, you know, intelligent, bright, dedicated to their coursework, " that sort of thing.
And specifically there is a need to recognize exceptional students.
We think this is necessary: a, because we think that a lot of the time performance in schooling is important to, you know, what sort of jobs you get, that sort of thing.
But we also think that it's important for college admissions, that is, ensuring that we, you know, allow kids to go to colleges that are not just going to, you know, help them become the best student they can, but that are also not going to put kids that are, you know, out of their depth into colleges.
We think that subjective analysis, which is presumably the counterfactual , you know, where teachers just say, " this is a good kid, straight a's, " that sort of thing.
We think that that creates a landscape where it is difficult to compare students between schools.
So while, you know, at high school " a ", you might be able to get an idea of who the good students are and the bad students are.
You're not going to get that in comparatives between colleges between schools, rather.
And as such, we think that the college admissions process becomes inherently arbitrary.
This is problematic, not just because of the fairness issues and the educational concerns I just outlined, but also because we think that it means that it winds up creating situations where schools then become sort of seen as like bad schools, where you don't admit students from.
If you can't compare students between schools meaningfully, then, you know, something like philips andover, which is like a private school that's very prestigious in the united states, winds up getting like all the spots at harvard, and even if there's an exceptionally bright student at like, you know, PS one thirty whatever in new york, they don't get that opportunity to really get into elite schools because their school that they come from is just seen as kind of like a write-off.
What we think, then, is that even if there are imbalances in access to , you know, things like tutors for standardized tests, the counterfactual is inherently less fair.
But our second point is that the subjective analysis is even further damaging to poorer students.
We think that teachers, much like anybody else in society, can be subject to racial, gender and classist biases.
And by this, then, we think that if you allow for subjective analysis, that is, teachers deciding, you know, this kid gets an " a ", this kid gets a " b ", etcetera, and you don't have any sort of standardized test that determines any sort of like objectivity, we think that that means that a lot of the time, these biases will manifest themselves into distinctions in success essentially, that white teachers, for example, might write off minority students.
And as such, we think that there will be significant amounts of discriminatory behavior associated with the lack of the standardized testing.
Our third and final point, though, is that we think that having a standardized test ensures consistency in schooling.
A lot of places, such as the deep south, for example, often are insistent upon schooling practices that are objectively wrong, things like, for example, schools that don't want to teach evolution to students in science classes.
As such then, we think that it's important to have standardized tests, because it creates a sense of consistency across schools in ways that governments often cannot ensure.
This is because of , you know, tenth amendment claims, essentially, that schools at the municipal or, at least, the state level have the right to determine their own curriculum.
But we think we can maintain a sense of universalism over schools with standardized tests by just creating a baseline of things that students are expected to know.
And as such, we can keep a check on school districts that decide that they're going to get out of hand and change the curriculum in ways that could be damaging to the students themselves.
Proud to oppose.