I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban male infant circumcision.
I want to start this with an overview that largely tackles the meat of what side government.
So, when we discuss whether or not infants are capable of consenting into a particular action, such as male infant circumcision, we obviously recognize that they are incapable of consenting of their own volition, but they also aren't capable of consenting into anything else.
Like all the reasons that are provided as to why infants can't like perform informed consent into any course of action apply to literally any action.
So the way that we solve for this then in, you know, like modern society is that we assume that the parent has the right to make these decisions, and the reason for this is pretty simple.
The parent, insofar as you have to establish some proxy for the will of the individual infant, is the best available proxy.
Like you could just have the state mandate every individual decision in what happens to an infant, but the state's generally not going to be a great proxy because they not only don't understand the individual needs of that particular infant, but they're also not particularly understanding of the circumstances in which that infant is risen on.
So the overall idea that I want to establish for this debate, then, is that this isn't a question of whether or not the infant can meaningfully consent into a particular action.
The question is whether or not parents should have the right to make certain decisions on behalf of the infant, because they are, at the end of the day, the best proxy for that infant's best interests.
This brings me into two independent points, that is, legitimate reasons why the parent would want to do this into do this to the child, you know, insofar as it might benefit their interests.
So the first of these, quite clearly, is religion.
This is, you know, the main reason why circumcisions are performed in the first place.
Particularly under the jewish faith, this is a very common practice.
Gov tells you that the child can't consent into religion.
I think this is where we really want to establish the importance of the fact that the parent is the person who understands the parents are the people who understand best what environment that child is going to be raised in, because you can't like most fundamental decisions in day-to-day life are based off of like if not explicitly religious beliefs, at least like really fundamental beliefs, in some capacity, that are indoctrinated to you by your upbringing.
A lot of our core values are instilled in us by our parents.
At that point then, if this is going to be something that is particularly important to me on a religious basis, it makes the most sense then for the decision of whether or not I want to partake a particular action that is intrinsic to that religion, it makes the most sense for the person that's going to raise me of that religion to make the decision.
I think my parents are probably the best predictor of whether or not I'm going to grow up to be , you know, a faithful to the jewish faith and as a result, then, the proxy to the parent is particularly important.
What I also want to establish under this is that the decision to not receive circumcision is as important as the decision to.
Given that this is, you know, fundamentally important to the religious belief structure, it's important to recognize that whether the decision is made to circumcise or not, these hold equal gravity.
So it is important then to recognize that the parent has the best capacity to make that decision.
The second thing I want to bring up and also another reason why we might , you know, allow parents to make this decision for their kids is health.
You know, there is certainly a decent amount of literature out there that is, you know, relatively uncertain certainly on what the health benefits versus risks of circumcision are, but to say it's, you know, a closed case is, you know, far from the truth.
This is something that's fairly contentious.
Given that, we think the parent is obviously in a good position to make decisions based on health for the infant and , you know, if they if they believe firmly that this is something that will, you know, make them healthier later in life, then it's, you know, certainly their prerogative to allow their children to have that to have that procedure performed upon them.
Proud to oppose.