I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban alternative medicine.
I have three independent points: the first is that the propagation of alternative medicine results in suffering when it replaces traditional medicine.
It's important to establish that this medicine doesn't work.
That it has been trial tested, and these are types of remedies for ailments that just are not effective.
They have been clinically proven to be ineffective and they are not going to actually alleviate the suffering associated with any illness or ailment.
This is a problem then, because people generally, operating under financial constraints, make a zero sum decision whether they will pursue one kind of treatment or another.
And when they pursue one that is ineffective that is a significant harm because it means that the ailment does not go treated.
It means that if they had chosen the other path that they would be better, and that the world would be better by extension because there would be less suffering in it.
I think then, it is reasonable to say that if we were to ban alternative medicine there would be less suffering because less people would be choosing paths that lead them into harm.
Our second independent point is that there are information asymmetries that exist in the medical market.
Generally speaking when we talk about these types of treatments, there's a lot of scientific data to purse through, if you actually want to make the decision for yourself on which type of medicine you want to pursue.
That is a difficult decision when you don't have the basis or the education to say: " x like product is just going to work better for me than y. "
Given that, I think it is reasonable for the government to say: " we are going to ban the thing that doesn't work because we want consumers to be able to make the appropriate decision. "
This is especially true because generally speaking in these issues, there is an objectively correct decision that it is pretty much just uniformly true that like x herb rubbed up against your skin is just not going to be as an effective of cancer treatment as chemotherapy is.
Given that, I think it is reasonable for the government to intervene and say: " we are going to ban the thing that won't work so that we can ensure consumers are only looking at options that are actually tenable solutions to their suffering. "
Our third independent point is that it promotes the scientific process.
And I think this is really important.
What will likely be the majority of ops argumentation is just why people are allowed to consent into harm and why like certain types of things might be legitimate.
And I want us to -- this.
Right?
Like let's say that rubbing like aloe all over your skin just like cures leukemia.
Right?
Like let's say it's just this miracle cure and the quacks are right.
I think the problem then is that the only difference between alternative medicine and just regular medicine is whether or not it's been clinically tested and proven to be successful.
So the worst case scenario, that we have like this system that allows people to just say: " okay I'm going to run this medicine through it and test it properly to see if it's actually affective ", that's just going to happen more frequently in a world where alternative medicine is banned.
Because now if someone wants to sell their product, they have to run it through that system.
There is no other choice.
And we think it is uniformly good when people actually engage in the scientific process and test their medicine to see if it is effective, because this ensurers better public understanding of what the effects of the medicine are, and it ensures that scientists are taking responsible measures to ensure that their product is actually a good thing to take, both in terms of whether or not it is safe to ingest and in terms of whether or not it is effective means of actually combating the disease.
Proud to propose.