I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should increase funding and increase the proliferation of small modular reactors.
We would broadly define this as just increasing, you know, public and private investment into the technology and making it a more essential portion of our energy infrastructure.
Three independent points: first that by increasing the energy supply, you decrease cost.
It is obviously intuitive as to why supply goes up when you invest more into different types of energy, and I think this broadens the portfolio then of what our energy infrastructure looks like.
This is important because first, just in a vacuum, increasing the supply decreases the cost.
This is, you know, basic supply and demand economics.
But also increasing the diversity of the sources of the energy decreases the cost, because it means that we can , you know, basically have greater granularity on our energy infrastructure, that different regions are better, you know, suited to receive energy from different sources, that, you know, for example, it's tough to supply oil to certain parts of the country.
So if we allow these small modular reactors to, you know, fill the gaps essentially in where it is tougher to get certain types of energy to certain parts of the country, then we created a a system that works better for people on a more granular level and and more directly targets the needs of different areas.
Our second independent point is the environmental impacts of this, that small modular reactors, much like nuclear reactors, have very little emissions when compared to things like fossil fuels.
But also in the comparative is that these are even better than nuclear reactors.
Because they operate on a smaller scale, they actually work more efficiently really, in terms of ensuring that there is a less significant a proliferation of emissions and nuclear waste and things like that.
They are, in essence, better for the environment, and this is important when combating existential threats like, say, global warming, that have a very high impact on , you know, communities around the world, sea levels changing weather patterns, things like this have profound impacts on the rest of the world.
The last independent point I'd like to advance is, quite simply, that these systems, that small modular reactors make increased access it essentially increase access for rural communities that often wouldn't have the ability to access robust energy infrastructure.
So this is especially true in , you know, areas that aren't well-situated to receive solar or wind energy, because both of these technologies are the most, you know, widely used forms of renewable energy are really only tailored to specific areas.
, you know, if you live in a desert, for example, solar technology is fantastic.
And if you live on the ocean front, then wind technology is fantastic.
But otherwise, there're, you know, some serious issues with implementing these.
Nuclear reactors, on the other hand, are much more widely applicable, yet the size of a standard nuclear reactor itself is also a prohibiting factor for a lot of regions.
That said, small modular reactors solve for that issue and allow us to implement renewable technology in regions that previously might not have been capable of utilizing them.
That, in and of itself, is a serious benefit, because we increase the ways in which that we can address our energy infrastructure to the needs of individual regions and ensure that renewable energy isn't just something that can be applied to particular areas.
This, in turn, means that we can build energy infrastructure on a nationwide basis that can completely exclude fossil fuels in the long term because we've beaten back the ability of fossil fuels , you know, as the only flexible energy source that can be applied to various areas.
Proud to propose.