I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt direct democracy.
I'll model this as a system where we still have representatives and we still have like basically like a house and the senate, but they're largely just for procedural things.
We will institute a system where by a citizens' petition you can pull anything that the legislature is prepared to vote on and simply have you know a nationwide referendum on it instead.
So presumably this will be often utilized for like big picture things, like you know landmark pieces of legislation and what not.
But additionally you'd say it's it's very unlikely that something more procedural, like naming a post office or the other more mundane tasks that the legislature concerns itself with sometimes would actually you know fall down on the citizens.
So really we're looking at like the big picture stuff that's actually going to be voted on directly.
Our first independent point is that you know quite intuitively, it's just more democratic the reason we care about democracy in the first place and why this is a value that actually matters to us is that we want government to work in the best interests of the majority of people.
Insofar as we think suffering is bad, and we think you know generally speaking it is just good if people live lead happier lives, we want a system of government that does the most good for the most people and because people have different preferences it's important to proxy those preferences through you know democratic decision making processes.
That is to basically enact what the majority wants in order to ensure that we are, you know, making as many people as possible happy.
So the way that we work then with a representative democracy is somewhat flawed.
Three reasons why: the first is that special interests have direct effect on representatives than they do on you know the people at large.
If a lobbyist wants to sway an individual piece of legislation in the interest of their, you know, their special interest in their narrow subset of the population, they really only have to buy off or convince one a smaller number of individuals when we're looking at you know the senate or the house of representatives, but if this is the population, then you basically you have to sell the country on this.
That's always going to be much tougher, especially when you're talking directly to the people who might be you know adversely affected by this measure.
Secondly, these people are just imperfect as you know perfect proxies for the will of their constituents.
Each individual legislature legislator has their own preferences, that will be enacted into law if they got their way.
While I as a voter am going to vote for the person that most directly reflects my preferences, you're never going to find a perfect representative, and as such your often going to wind up with representatives that do things that aren't perfectly in lockstep with their constituencies will.
And third is political incentives.
Just that when you have people acting in a political setting they often do things that they even themselves don't genuinely believe in, but they're forced to do it because of the way the media might spin an action, or because of something that a more powerful politician wants them to do.
We get rid of these political incentives under a direct democracy.
The second thing that I'd like to bring up more quickly though is just increase civic engagement.
So we think that when you create a system where people have to participate directly in the decision making process of their government, you force them to actually be more invested in the ways in which that that government actually, you know, makes its decisions in its policies.
Right now we think that there is a significant lack of investment in the political system.
That people you know don't pay attention, they don't read the news and they're not up to date on the latest events.
We think that when we force them to engage with this process, that they become more engaged and that therefore we have a democracy that works out better for the people because the people are participating in it fully.
Proud to propose.