I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should increase the fuel tax.
Our first independent point is that the fuel tax, in a sense, operates like a sin tax.
Disincentivizing a socially harmful behavior.
In this case that behavior is broadly consumption of fossil fuels.
So the way in which we disincentivize this is of course is by increasing the costs associated with it.
So when we increase the cost of fuel, people are more likely to you know give up driving and instead transfer over to something like public transportation or biking.
This in turn provides a number of social goods.
One, is the environmental impact of driving.
Emissions generated by cars are a significant portion of the emissions generated by the developed world.
Obviously these emissions contribute greatly to global warming and in turn they're a host of impacts associated with global warming.
Things like rising sea levels, changing weather patterns, and mass extinction associated by changes to ecological structures.
So this in turn is its whole host of harms that are mitigated by a decrease in driving, which in turn is driven by a fuel tax.
But secondarily we think that there are more local benefits to decreasing driving.
Things like less smog and less traffic that are associated with both economic and quality of life harms.
This in turn is important because it means that the people who you know leave in the society then are actually benefiting from the tax because it disincentivizes a harmful behavior.
But furthermore, we think that there's a principled aspect to this, that in turn people who drive or creating a social harm that is inflicted upon all people, including the ones who don't drive, that in turn justifies a tax to rectify the issues created by driving.
If we can then reinvest the revenue from that tax into something that helps those that have to suffer the harms created and the externalities created by driving, that is principally just.
This leads me into my second point.
That the things that we actually spend the fuel tax's money and revenue on are things that create significant social good.
Generally in order to make a fuel tax palatable to voters, countries have to actually specifically earmark it for infrastructure spending.
This is important then, because infrastructure spending is, broadly speaking, a obviously good thing.
There are you know broad social benefits such as you know increasing mobility ease by allowing people to get from point a to point b easier, there's the aforementioned benefits about you know decreased smog, noise pollution and traffic, that are associated with infrastructure spending.
And we think that this can manifest itself in different ways depending on what type of infrastructure spending you're looking at.
You know better investment in highways for example might decrease the amount of driving that has to be done to get from point a to point b.
Likewise increased investment in public transportation can significantly improve the accessibility of public transportation which in turn takes cars off the road because now trains or buses become a preferable option.
Regardless of what the type of spending is within infrastructure, we think that you know assuming that it's a well a well you know designed project that is executed correctly, infrastructure spending is broadly a good thing.
Another benefit that it has to society broadly, is that by decreasing costs associated with transportation, whether that be you know through better designed highways or better designed you know pathways in general to get across the country, you decrease transportation costs for goods.
Which in turn decreases the costs of goods at the cash register.
Things like food prices go down when there are less costs associated with getting them to where they need to be.
That in turn of course provides another social benefit which is decrease food costs and costs of other products that need to be transported long distances.
Proud to propose.