I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should abolish organic food.
Three independent points.
First, the people have a right to choose this type of food.
So I think for starters, it's worth recognizing that this food is quite likely to be healthier than GMO food.
There is large amounts of pesticides that go into most food we could see on a day to day basis.
Likewise, this is true the ways in which we modify organisms.
Frequently these are things done in labs that we don't have much understanding of and as such we have very little ability to really have knowledge over what's going into our bodies.
I think generally speaking then it is fair to say that these types of foods are probably healthier when you don't have those unknown variables going into your diet.
But let's take gov's stance at face value.
Let's just say that they're right, that this is less healthy than normal food.
I think the fact that there are two legitimate arguments here mean that the difference is probably quite small.
That is to say that there are benefits and there are harms and realistically it's probably a toss up as to which one of these is healthier given the best version of their arguments.
Given that, I think it is reasonable just to say that people have the right to consent into deciding what kind of food they want.
Like if there are harms and benefits this is probably good for some people and bad for other people.
Furthermore, even if it's just objectively bad, people have the right to consent into harm especially when that harm is small but even if that harm is large, we are fine with letting people make bad financial decisions.
We are fine with letting people eat twinkies for every meal because people have the right to consent into those types of decisions.
Fundamentally, I think this is an important right and that limiting it because you think that it is unhealthy is an unreasonable basis for a ban.
Our second independent point is that there is a false binary put forward by gov on the efficiency.
So recognize that organic crops are generally grown in fairly wealthy places, wealthy countries anyway, because these are the countries that can actually afford to pay a premium on these wealthy countries.
The people that gov is talking about that are experiencing food insecurity, that are experiencing destitute poverty, these are not countries where organic produce is like a big seller.
So I just don't see why banning this then creates like some sort of surge in availability of food for the third world but furthermore, we would say that actually on their side of the house you increase demand for GMO foods which increases the prices.
Like this is just sort of basic economic stuff.
Like when price goes when the demand goes up price goes up because there are more people trying to get at the same amount of things.
I think this is a problem then because especially when you adjust for the purchasing power of the wealthy people who are currently consuming organic crops, you decrease the means by which the third world can accessed GMO's which are important to like making sure that these people have access to food on a day to day basis.
Our third independent point is that there are just massive economic problems and moral problems with forcing chemical use.
So you put a lot of hands into the a lot of power into the hands of producers of pesticides and other genetically modified chemicals that would affect these crops when you are literally mandating its use.
Like I think this is something that government doesn't really grapple with effectively but if you ban things that don't have chemicals in them, then you are forcing every agricultural like producer in the country to like actually use these chemicals.
That puts a lot of economic power into the hands of a small number of chemical producers and I think it's really important to recognize that you are doing that in such a way that prevents consumers for meaningfully opting out of that system.
Given that, I think we put a lot of money into the hands of people that aren't necessarily doing good for the world.
I think that's an issue but it also probably creates if not monopolies at least cartels.
Proud to oppose.