I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish standardized tests.
I think what's quite telling about government's advocacy is that they never propose an alternative.
They never say, we're going to get rid of standardized tests and replace it with this system that's better.
That's a problem because the reality is that while standardized tests have their flaws and they have their problems, there isn't a readily available alternative.
There isn't something that we can easily point to and say, that's a lot better let's adopt that instead.
Otherwise we'd be doing that.
I think this is the issue that they never grapple with.
That while there are obviously harms you can line out with standardized tests, there is no feasible alternative that could solve for those issues.
We need benchmarks, we need a way to compare students, and we need some level of standardization within our system.
Three independent points.
First, is that consistency beats back inadequate methods of teaching.
So I think there's really two ways that this can happen, the first is that you just have like ridiculous school systems that teach things that are outrageously false.
A good example of this is the south the deep south in the united states where like a lot of schools want to teach that evolution is like not true.
I think, generally speaking, standardized testing is the only means we have of establishing that this is something you cannot teach because at the end of the day the only other way to actually ensure that thing certain things are or are not taught in schools is to say, look, we're gonna just give you a standardized curriculum.
Obviously that's like way more intrusive and bites more heavily into the harms that government talks about, so the standardized tests which just ensure that they've been taught certain things and individual concepts is a significantly preferable means of ensuring that this sort of like deviation from like the truth doesn't occur within schools.
But secondly, it just establishes what what needs to be done.
So like the other way that you see problematic teaching patterns is schools just decide like, okay, like we're just not gonna bother teaching people like history because we don't think that's important.
So at a certain point then like the federal government just has to be like, look you can embellish, like you can add extra stuff on top of this if you think it's also important, but we need to set out the bare minimum here.
Or alternatively state governments rather like when you're looking at the united states.
So given that it's important then to recognize that like if there are certain things that just should be taught to students like science, like math, like history, like basic like writing and reading skills, you have to have some sort of standardized testing to ensure that schools are held accountable and actually teaching these things.
Second is that rankings matter.
Rankings of students and teachers for that matter.
But first, with teachers is just that you need to be sure which teachers are good so that you can fire the ones that aren't.
Second is that you need a way for colleges and things like that like employers to decide who they're going to hire or admit.
And third is that you need an incentive for people to actually perform well in their classes because of it just like some generic subjective thing where the teacher just chooses who they say is a good student, then there's not as much of an incentive to actually like learn the subject material as much as there is to just like suck up to that teacher.
So the way that gov then tries to beat back against all of this is to say like, oh but the system in the status quo is like really classist because people can just buy tutors instead.
I think the problem is that a subjective system where teachers just make individual decisions on who does best in their class is way more classist because not only do all of those things still apply, because they can hire tutors that conform to the new demands in the classroom, but on top of that things like personal connections and classist attitudes in an interpersonal setting can also factor into the decision making process.
So I don't think that government actually solves for classism in the schooling system.
Our third independent point is that these tests can work if administered properly which is why I don't think a ban is the appropriate solution.
You can test for multiple skills by giving out testing in multiple fields and areas.
You can change the authorship by making it teachers instead of bureaucrats that write these tests.
There are reasonable, common sense reforms that you can apply to the standardized testing landscape that solve for a lot of the issues that government talks about.
I don't think though that outright banning them is actually going to fix any of this.
Proud to oppose.