I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion that we should abolish standardized tests.
The model for this is pretty straightforward.
We would just say that there shouldn't be any sort of centrally prescribed standardized tests that schools have to administer that would then be used to determine their ability to advance to other grades or get into higher education or anything of that sort.
Instead we would just allow schools to, on a case by case basis, determine whether or not students are fit for graduation, fit for moving on to the next grade, what scores they should receive in certain classes.
We would just allow more autonomy to the schools instead of prescribing this actually.
So, three independent points: our first point is that students have distinct needs that are not reflected by a single centralized test.
That no two kids are the same.
What we mean by this is that different children have different needs, both in terms of their emotional needs, so there are children that are just not really temperamentally capable of taking the standardized tests but still might be quite bright, and secondly, we would say that there are different measures of aptitude that are generally not reflected in multiple choice questions or essays or what have you.
So, generally speaking, we think that having a single standardized test that is applied to all students is fundamentally incompatible with the notion that we have an education system that should cater to those individual needs and should best help each individual student.
Our second independent point is that the basis upon which these tests are constructed is fairly arbitrary.
Generally, these are not written by teachers.
They are written by administrators, people that aren't involved in schools on a day-to-day basis and as such, don't have an in-depth understanding of what these tests should contain.
But even the generous interpretation, that in some states these tests are written by teachers, still means that the general protocol or the general principles that guide the creation of these tests are set by legislators, that is, that there are certain aspects that even a writing staff fully equipped with teachers can't overcome.
For example, if you were to prescribe that a test look for some specific metric, like understanding of an obscure scientific principle that isn't particularly important, and as a result, you had to have teachers write that thing.
So, generally speaking, the notion of a centrally prescribed test doesn't work out in practice because the place it is prescribed from, a legislature or even administrators of school districts, means that these tests are not particularly reflective of what we should actually be looking for to determine aptitude among students.
The third independent point that we have today is that generally speaking, these tests are incredibly favorable to wealthier students at a structural level.
The reason for this is that unlike teachers making subjective decisions about students, you can study for these types of things.
Now these imbalances, to be fair, exist in most facets of life.
For example, rich people are generally capable of saving money, which means they have more money to them over for like healthcare issues and things like that.
But we would say that this is particularly pernicious, because it occurs early in life and determines the trajectory of most of your professional and academic career.
As a result, we think this has a profound impact.
But also we would say that when you have the capacity to take out an advantage that disproportionately harms poor students, you should do so, even if those harms exist elsewhere in the world.
So, the ways in which richer students can hire tutors and things like, that that give them an edge over poorer students, make these tests particularly easy to gain for richer students and as a result, we firmly believe that they are harmful to the socioeconomic structure of this country.
Proud to propose.