I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish IQ tests.
Three independent points but first, I want to give a slight overview of where opposition takes their offerings from because I think there's really only two sources.
The first is this notion that the tests are essentially biased and as such, there is unique harm in that the bias legitimizes preexisting societal conditions of oppressed peoples.
The second comes from the notion that the tests are simply inaccurate and as a result, that this creates a harm on the individual and their ability to obtain gainful employment.
I want to keep these in mind then as I walk through what the problems in their speech are.
The first thing that we need to talk about then, is that there is an affirmative need to sort people based on ability for specific careers and that this ability is mitigated when there is no sort of testing.
So one common example of this is the military which tests both for personality and intelligence in determining who can receive what posts.
I think this is important that you have this sort of objective measure by which you could have people say this is someone who is just you know better with critical thinking skills or some other metric that can then determine their aptitude for specific functions.
The impact of this is pretty severe, that if you put someone who is under-qualified or incapable of performing specific duties in a high risk position you likely induce significant harms both in terms of you know just the financial costs of a mistake but also potentially in terms of the human cost.
Our second argument though more directly gets at what the problems in opposition's advocacy are.
So first on this notion then that there is cultural bias instilled within the test.
We think that simply put, the alternative is worse.
Through these tasks you have to have some degree of objectivity that essentially even if a past is saying you have to play on our turf from a cultural perspective, at least there is a turf.
We think that objectivity and like some level of consistency within testing environments ensures that the the standard for getting a job or getting anything that requires an IQ test isn't just going to be a moving target that can be shifted whenever someone of an oppressed class seems to be within reach of doing well on the test.
Obviously there is going to be bias.
But we think that the alternative is going to be simply more subjective.
That interviews or more inter-personal conversations are going to be the determining factor in whether or not a job is received.
That we believe, is significantly more prone to the sort of discrimination that government is concerned about.
Their offense then specifically stems from the notion that the test legitimizes the oppressive viewpoint.
That it creates some sort of idea that this is you know something rooted in scientific fact.
We think the problem is that this is predicated on the notion of there being some sort of objective measure.
If you ban the objective measure, people when questioned on the scientific validity of the opinion will simply say there isn't an objective way to you know analyze this or just look at like whatever like how can I like that are inormative arguments we're making.
So absent any sort of empirical measure, we think that people are still going to continue to rest upon racist ideals and assert that they are true.
Our third and final independent point is that from the individuals perspective, whether or not one person just is like harmed by taking this test we think that is something that you can consent into.
Obviously, even if they weren't reflective of cultural biases, these tests are still you know debatable in terms of what metrics we should be looking for.
I think that necessarily then is at the individual level a risk or a harm that you consent into.
That by taking the test and entering the pool you recognize that you might not do well and you might not do well undeservedly.
Proud to oppose.