I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should ban genetically modified food supply.
Three independent points: first is that genetically modified foods allow us to increase the supply of food that we have globally.
So, we hear out of government that like food shortages globally are a product of like poor governance and not of the actual quantity of food.
This is probably true, that there is enough food around the world to actually feed the number of people.
The problem is that the issues discussed by side government are significantly pernicious enough that that isn't just going to be something that's going to go away with like better governance.
You just can't like will better governance into existence given because like, you know, western liberal democracies and all these other like bastions of good governance or whatever don't actually have control over whether or not like egypt does a good job of like making sure that its poorer citizens get access to food.
Given that, I think really the only way that we can successfully mitigate this is just increase the quantity of food to an a significant enough degree that we lower the price of that food.
So this in turn makes it easier for for like countries to ensure easy access to the food if the product itself is cheaper.
But furthermore, we would say the genetically modified crops are actually intrinsically important to increasing that supply.
That's because these types of developments that actually make these so profitable, as gov seems to cry, are actually the very same thing that makes it possible to increase the food supply.
That is, if monsanto finds out a way to like make corn like like have a lot more corn get out of the same amount of input seeds or whatever, then you get more food supply on a global level.
Our second independent point is that you decrease disease spread.
So, a lot of issues with like like food-borne disease have to do with like farming practices that are difficult to actually change, things like the fact that you are just like growing crops out in the open wild and that whatever animals, you know, occasionally will come by and just like snack on your crops.
This is something that's pretty tough to deal with.
Like you can't really do that much about insects, birds come from above, like even like tougher animals like deer can usually pierce their way through fencing.
This is something that is more or less an inevitability.
Genetically modified organisms, though, allow you to actually create disease-repellent crops, and that ensures consumer safety.
I think a really good example of this is like the fact that chipotle recently had like that e coli breakout, and this was largely found to be a product of the fact that their unwillingness to use genetically modified organisms made their food supply more disease-prone.
If we get rid of genetically modified organisms, we go back to the standards for food quality that we were accustomed to in like the early part of the twentieth century.
That's obviously a problem.
I think testing generally does mitigate harms that government talks about.
They're like, " oh well, monsanto doesn't know how to think about the long term. "
I think like: a, the long term is generally like less problematic than it's made to think out, like silent spring probably showed a decent amount of issues that were existing in the food supply but like for the most part, those issues have been resolved, and monsanto does have an active incentive, now that they are aware of the problem, to undergo more rigorous long-term testing.
Our third independent point is that organic food is always an option.
This is the parallel I really want to set up between our case and gov's is that in our world, you can still have organic food if that's something that you really think is inherently profitable.
It's always an option on the table.
You see these advertisements everywhere.
Obviously, you won't have trouble finding organic food.
Gov tells you that labeling makes it so that like people don't actually know if they're consuming GMOs or not.
I think this is ridiculous.
Lots of countries have strict labeling laws like that require you to say this is organic and like have strict definitions of what constitutes organic food.
So I think there is consumer awareness of what they are purchasing and at that point, if gov is correct and like these organic foods are just inherently better, people always have the option to buy them on our side of the house.
Proud to oppose.