I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should subsidize journalism.
Our first independent point is that this funnels money to wealthy individuals.
So gov talks pretty extensively about how the media is largely run by wealthy individuals in the status quo because you you don't have a system wherein it costs a lot of money to run and own a newspaper so of course the people at the top of the food pile or the food chain rather are going to be wealthy themselves.
I think the problem with this is that they don't solve that issue just by funneling more money into the newspapers, like if you take a look at what this does it just gives money to these papers and they can target it to like smaller papers but even a small paper like say you know the bay state banner in boston which specifically covers issues pertaining to the african-american community are still generally owned by like upper middle class people at the worst because it just costs so much to run a publication.
Even with subsidies we would still say that then the newspaper just becomes more valuable so someone wealthy is just going to buy the paper like no matter what the ownership is always going to be wealthy individuals.
So if you funnel these subsidies to the wealthy, then the wealth transfer that's actually occurring here is taking money from the public coffers that could have gone to say like some sort of like social spending programs like welfare like SNAP and instead just funneling it into like these institutions that already have tons of money.
I want to make it clear, the issue with news media is not a lack of capital.
Papers have lots of money, this isn't an issue there.
The problem is structural incentives with the way the media works and I'll get to those in a moment but it's important to note that throwing money at this issue isn't going to solve the inequity and representation issues that are intrinsic to the media.
Our second independent point then going off of this is that the money is essentially wasted.
So we think that papers are still going to seek maximum profits insofar as they're privately owned even if they get subsidization to help them with their day-to-day operating costs, owners still want maximum money being intake so that they can get more money out of their property like they own the paper they're going to take money off the top and that skimming's still going to happen.
So then what happens is that you don't fundamentally change the incentives of the media landscape.
All this bad behavior that gov talks about, things like having casting a wide net and making a very shallow dive into individual issues.
That still happens.
The reality is that eventhough there are going to be some degree of targeting towards institutions that you know have a narrow scope of issues but make a deep dive the reality is that the incentives for readership basis aren't going to change so you'll have like the same papers but they'll just be like more profitable like foreign policy makes a lot of money right now like this isn't like a cash strapped paper so the reality is that you don't get much of a meaningful change you just allow paper owners to skim more of their sales profits off the top and put it into their pockets.
Our third and final point is that this creates a massive conflict of interest.
So we think that while there's like this sort of rosy perception of just like oh well you know like well just give it to them and then we'll have like this separation of accountability like what we have with like government-appointed attorneys the reality is that you can't just like fire the existence of government-appointed attorneys meanwhile the system they're proposing involves selective identification of individual publications to provide subsidies to.
What that means is the there are literally systems by which you can just yank the funding out from individual papers so I think if the paper just gets to anti-state or too far away from the political center, it's unlikely they're going to continue funding.
So I think if anything with this creates is of race towards whatever political position the current administration maintains and thus encouraging funding.
Like trump is obviously going to give his subsidies to like breitbart and media outlets like that and at that point I think this is the worst possible scenario, that there's an incentive for the news media then to rush to the president's defense or the state's defense in general in order to secure those subsidies.
Proud to oppose.