I'm proud to support the motion that we should abolish term limits.
Two independent points, the first of which is that term limits reduce the quality of legislators.
So the reason that we think this is true is that legislators built experience, relationships, and expertise in their capacity as legislators the longer that they are in office.
The sort of inroads, the knowledge of the bureaucracy, the knowledge of public policy, that's something that comes with experience and often is so localized and so specific that it often can't be learned outside of office.
We think that regardless of what the length term limit is you know be it a four year term limit or eight year term limit or a ten year whatever type of model you are looking at realistically that is always going to put a cap on how good your legislature can be at representing you and this is specifically important because the way a representative democracy works is that we understand that the way our government works is obscure and difficult to penetrate and difficult to understand at times.
So we send people with relative expertise in the field at the area to washington or to the state house or whatever in order to advocate for our better interest.
The problem is that if we are creating inherently worse legislatures then we are creating worse advocates.
The needs of the constituents are less likely to be met.
Policies are less likely to be reflective the will and the best interests of the people, and bureaucracies and legislatures and so forth are less likely to work with one another in a way that is beneficial.
We think at that point then, that it is unreasonable to put this artificial constraint on quality of representation.
Our second independent point though is that elections provide consent for long term representation.
I think part of what you are going to hear out of side government is going to contend that when people like are already in office they can essentially manipulate elections in order to maintain power for long periods of time pass the technical consent of the of the electorate.
I think there's two problems with this though.
One is that simply you know a public that cast their ballot in favor of an elected routinely is one that is consenting into having that person be their representative for a long period of time.
We think that in so far as this is what people are saying they want, it is illegitimate for the government to intervene and say no you don't know what's best for you, we don't think this person is good at representing your interests but secondly, we think that those ways in which incumbents can use their incumbency to their advantage are not unique to long term terms right?
Like even just your second election you're going to benefit from an incumbency advantage.
We think at that point that it's unreasonable to say okay, the second time you run you can benefit from the incumbent advantage but not like the third or the fourth or whatever.
That arbitrary line in the sand not only is unfair, but it means that it is really really likely that everyone becomes like a two or a three term representative.
That because the incumbency advantage is so concentrated in this one or two runs for reelection, that you are unlikely to see the spread out over a longer time frame and as a result we think that this isn't going to do much to benefit the representativeness of any individual legislature.
Proud to propose.