I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should cancel the speed limit.
Our first independent point is that speed itself is a cause of danger.
Gov dedicates a lot of the speech towards explaining why individual cars can go at different speeds with different degrees of safety based on not just the car, but also who was driving that car.
This is true.
I think the problem is twofold with this though: that speed itself, past a certain point, not only mitigates the driver's capacity to react properly, but also mitigates the capacity of other drivers on the same road to react properly to that driver.
So, first with regard to the other drivers.
Imagine a scenario where you're driving on the highway and some person, who is totally capable of going a hundred miles an hour and this is not a problem for them in their car and of their driving skill, is trying to merge.
I think the issue here is that other cars, which are going comparatively slower because either their car doesn't justify them going quickly or because the individual driver just doesn't have the skill to go that quickly, have trouble reacting to these other people.
This then creates an issue where even if an individual driver is particularly adept, they are creating a scenario that is inherently unsafe.
Because if a collision happens, especially at high speeds, not only are the two cars involved in the crash then put it risk, but also cars surrounding them on a crowded highway are put at risk.
This can create significant harm.
So even if: one, this only happens rarely, or two, this only happens like in certain locations, there's a high likelihood for significant harm generated by this policy.
We think then that it is significantly more reasonable to put in place a speed limit the keeps everybody at a speed that is manageable and and it is feasible to react to.
But secondarily, we think that there's a problem on the driver's side of the car that would be going fast, because we think that people aren't particularly good at self-regulating.
There're: a, incentives to go very, very quickly, like you know, personal pride or having to be somewhere really soon because you're running late, but also b, misperceptions of what one's own skill is, that people generally have a tendency to think they are way better drivers than they actually are.
This, in turn, means that people, if told that there is no limit, will often go beyond what they are personally capable of.
Given that, we think it is reasonable to put a limit in place.
Our second independent point is that speed limits themselves signal important data about what the the state of a particular road is.
So, a lot of what gov tells you is that like people don't pay attention to the speed limit, so why bother enforcing it?
We think even if people don't bother following the speed limit most of the time, it does two particularly valuable things.
First, it signals comparatives: that is, that certain roads you can go quick on and certain roads you can't go quick on.
This is true just between comparing highways, like not even comparing back roads to highways, just different highways to one another based on the quality of the construction, the amount of turns that are in them, they have different rates at which it is reasonable to go.
Given that, then, it seems eminently reasonable to put speed limits in place even if people won't pay attention to them, because it regulates, to some capacity, people's perceptions of how fast they can go.
If someone regularly breaks the speed limit by like ten miles an hour, a fifty versus a sixty, still signals to that individual that one road is safer to go fast on than the other.
Secondly though, we think that even if people are regularly breaking the speed limit, it still puts some sort of cap on it.
Even if the cap isn't the literal speed limit, it still tells people, you know, you can't go ninety miles an hour in this forty zone.
There is a reasonable standard.
And without those signals to tell people this road is safer than that road to go fast on, we think it is justified to have some sort of speed limit, even if it's loosely enforced.
Proud to oppose.