I am proud to oppose the motion that we should disband the united nations.
Our first independent point is that the united nations facilitates deal making in a way that fosters cooperation between countries.
We think this happens in two ways: first, you physically put these countries, in a room or an organization, with one another we think this facilitates a type of interaction that wouldn't necessarily happen on a broader international scale, absent this sort of like institutional basis for doing so.
We think it's unlikely that, for example, two smaller countries, like say I don't know, like rwanda and like kazakhstan would ever have any sort of basis for talking to one another.
Historically, large sorts of like deal making an international discussions happened with like larger power brokers like say like russia or the UK as the, you know, essentially the deal breakers brokers and the ones that everybody went through.
We think then that the united nations creates a forum for smaller countries to ban together and have more direct conversations such that they can then pushed united fronts on major issues of importance to them.
But secondly we think the deal making is facilitated by the united nations through issue association.
That is that say a trade deal that is brokered through united nations between two countries is now intrinsically associated with say a human rights issue.
This then makes it easy for countries to say, put pressure on south africa in the nineties under apartheid because the united nations had created so many deals and like trade agreements and things like that with these other countries.
That issue association then means that countries have more of a basis to interact with one another and to push each other into action.
Our second independent point is norm building.
So we think that particularly with treaties, like say the geneva convention, there is a large degree of the united nations, even if it doesn't have enforcement capacity, to create norms.
So the geneva convention by its nature isn't really a thing that can be like prosecuted in court or anything like that, it's just a statement that these are like basic things you shouldn't do in times of war.
But what it did do was sort of have this large affect on the public conscious that there are such a thing as like war crimes, it basically invented the term genocide.
And we think that this has a significant impact on more domestic politics, that there is more likely to be pressure on say the united states government for committing war atrocities in say iraq when the public discourse has been shifted in such a way as to accept these practices as problematic and even illegal under international law.
As such then we think that that discursive effect that the united nations has positively affects and checks the actions of large superpowers.
Our third and final independent point is that the united nations is simply better than anarchy.
So we think in a world without the UN, as mentioned earlier, big nations generally dominate the conversation.
That without these sort of like structural paths or institutional paths rather, for smaller countries to pursue change there are simply no paths.
Furthermore, there are a less checks because of the discursive issues and the issue association for big nations simply pressuring smaller ones.
As an example of like why the UN is undemocratic gov brings up like resolutions levied against israel that the united states and israel then often strike down unilaterally.
I think the problem with this analysis is that this also happens in a world without the united nations.
The problem is just that it doesn't happen in public it happens in like back rooms and behind the scenes and as such the issue doesn't even get really discussed in the media or anything like that because there's just no public forum on which this is happening.
I think then the fact that you're just shining a light on these practices because they're done in an open fashion has its own benefits that make it comparatively better than a world where there is no institution on which these abuses occur.
Proud to oppose.