I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should subsidize journalism.
In terms of the model we're going to say that model like public radio and things like that is what we mean when we say subsidizing journalism.
State-run journalism certainly can fall under the scope of this, but I think primarily what we would like to talk about is things where we are simply making a contribution towards specific news organization, rather than fully supporting it.
So two independent points: the first of which is just establishing the public good that is provided by you know journalism in general.
I think even absent the nature of specific public radio and things like that, there is an information need for the public to participate in a democracy, or any form of society really, to a full extent.
You cannot, you know, really understand what's going on in the world around you unless you have that information, and knowing what's going on in the world around you is really important.
You know just on a day to day basis making decisions about you know where you want to travel or you know what you want to do on a given day, things that you're passionate about, you know if you want political activism to reduce suffering somewhere in the world, you need information about what's going on to do any of this.
So it's really fundamentally important then to the individual person whether or not they're well informed about this sort of thing.
And subsidizing journalism to that extent then, if nothing else, simply increases the number of news organizations that are reporting on the happenings of the day.
This is important of course because a variety of different sources you know provides a variety of different perspectives, and also the ability to be more granular in reporting.
So that means not only then do you get the diversity of viewpoints but you get a diversity of issues and actual subjects being reported on.
And that's always going to be more beneficial then, from the perspective of allowing people to remain informed about things that are of particular interest to them.
Our second independent point is though specifically the type of news organization that is created when you introduce public funding.
And we think this is particularly important.
So the standard news organization, take like fox or MSNBC or CNN or whatever, often has flaws intrinsic to it because it's financially beholden.
It has an incentive to target a particular audience in order to make its bottom line.
That's a problem.
It can often result in biased reporting, but it's also a problem in the types of things it wants to report on.
It can't be particularly granular or in the weeds, because it has to apply itself to a broad audience.
Especially in an era where things like cable and print media is really on the decline, your primary incentive is to avoid alienating people, unless you're a news organization whose business model is predicated on appealing to a base, in which case the bias problem returns.
So these financial incentives have a really detrimental effect on the quality of news.
And there's then something that changes when you're supported by the government.
That is that you don't have to rely on that financial incentive anymore.
You don't have to worry about your bottom line because you have the support coming in from a steady source.
That means that you can have more independent journalism, but it also means you can have more granular journalism about you know really specific esoteric things that people might be deeply passionate about but just might not have that wide of a support base.
I think the thing that gov might bring up then, is the risk of you know pro government bias because their funding comes from that source, but if anything, you can look to you know NPR in the united states is an example of just why this is unlikely to materialize.
I mean NPR hasn't had any issue with critiquing the trump administration.
So at that point then, I think you get still quality reporting, you just get it without being burdened by these financial incentives.
Proud to propose.