I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should expand usage of mobile payments.
Our first independent point is that that is increases the leverage of cell phone providers.
J so I think much in the same way that gov describes to you how leaving your pay check with your employer increases the leverage your employer has over you, the same is true of a like a cell provider.
So if, for example, a t and t controls the link between me and me accessing all of my money, a t and t has a lot of leverage over me.
While it's true that a t and t is heavily regulated in the developing world, comparable cell providers in the er in the developed world rather in the developing world we don't think these regulations are as strict, and particularly because we think that gov you know is so preoccupied with the developing world, we think this is a really important point.
That at the root of all these impacts that government is attempting to access there is an inherent imbalance in power between individuals and their cell phone providers.
Even if there is power imbalances between them and their bank, for example, because you know banks can exert financial influence over individuals, we think that having you know multiple forces bearing down on you at the same time is exponentially more problematic.
And we especially think that it's problematic when your cell phone provider is involved in this because this then means that your finances are tied up with someone that has other fairly unassociated impacts on your lives.
So you can you know lose communication capacity for example if there's problems with you know that you have with your cell phone provider when they're trying to exert influence over you regarding your mobile payment account.
We think then that especially developing banking infrastructure that's so closely tied to an industry dominated by a few corporations, you know usually there's not that many cell phone providers in an individual country, and especially in terms of cell phone manufacturers there's even less like apple and samsung have basically cornered the market, we think that this exerts a lot of influence into a small number of hands.
Our second independent point is security.
So while government makes a point of saying, you know, oh well you can't steal a phone for er if you steal a phone like you can just freeze the account, we think that there's a more significant security concern with hacking.
There are active steps people can take against you know having their paychecks stolen from them physically.
Gov mentions for example leaving your money with your employer.
The problem with this is that the comparative, like mobile banking, means that people can just remotely hack into your account and steal your money.
We think that because this is all routed through your cell phone, which is inherently less secure than a bank account managed by an actual bank, this is significantly less secure than say working with a card or something and as such then we think that people are much more prone to lose their money, especially people in the developing world where they're not necessarily as familiar with ways to protect your online presence and identity.
This then though, this comparative with cards, brings me into my third and final point.
That a lot of the things brought up by side government can probably be solved by just like better accessed cards.
So specifically we think that mobile phones are not like the most accessible good in the developing world, especially the smartphones needed for comprehensive mobile banking are like fairly expensive and not everybody has them, so it's a poor way to implement widespread access to banking.
What we think is a better way is just better access to cards because, a, cards themselves are cheap, b, cards have all these benefits, like the ability to freeze your accountant and that sort of thing if it gets stolen, and c, we think that it's less impactful when it gets stolen, as someone now has an incentive to steal your phone that's really bad because it also hurts your ability to communicate and other things that are you the phone is used for.
If someone steals your card you freeze your account but that was going to happen on either side of the house.
So we think that the impacts then in a world where people just use cards instead and banks take active steps to make them more available, are far greater.
Proud to oppose.