I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should disband the united nations.
Two independent points: first is that the united nations decreases conflict and, more broadly, facilitates agreements and , you know, treaties that are beneficial to the global structure.
This occurs in a wide variety of ways.
The first is that it provides mechanisms for rapid resolution of both physical and economic political conflict.
One way in this can occur is mediators.
So, the united nations creates a forum for conflicts between states to be mediated by other member states.
By creating a large forum with wide membership, you can force discussion wherein it's not just like two nations duking it out that are going to see they're going to fail to see each other eye to eye, but rather some sort of like third-party independent intermediary can come in and assist with the dialogue.
This can be out into multiparty talks which can like involve lots of different actors that normally wouldn't all sit down in the same room.
So something like world war one, for example, develops out of a large web of like agreements and alliances that largely are the product of like this like sort of convoluted web that doesn't make sense, because it's the product of individual nations meeting with each other on a one on one basis.
But if you have a larger network, where everyone sits down in the same room, these convoluted relationships are less likely develop, and perspectives are more clearly understood, conversations are more easily facilitated.
Furthermore, collective security can be used to resolve conflicts by creating large coalitions of states that uphold a common principle, like something like, I don't know, genocide is bad, and then are able to collectively crack down on states that abuse that principle because they see it as a mechanism to ensure their continued respect for that principle.
This leads me into the sort of the second way in which conflict and other harmful things are prevented by the UN, which is norms.
So, when you have a large institution like this, there are certain norms that are created, shared understandings by member states.
So you can shame dissenters.
That has tangible impacts that I'll get into briefly.
But when you make them a pariah state, you sort of create the norm in such a way that it is actually followed.
Furthermore, treaties like, say, like the geneva convention, create sort of like this standard discourse that this is something that needs to be respected.
I want to note here that even though gov is like, " look, here's a lot of examples of when people didn't follow treaties or didn't follow norms or were generally abusive ", like that doesn't matter, because the reality is that that would have happened anyway without the united nations.
Powerful actors are always going to be powerful, and this is something I'll get into in a bit.
But the treaty's create sort of like a populace understanding that this is something that matters.
People on the ground, like day-to-day people that aren't like international diplomats or whatever, understand like concepts of human rights and like just war and like you don't kill like civilians in warfare because of these treaties, because of these common understandings that are facilitated by international institutions.
So, third is tie-ons.
You create these deals through the forum approach to the international institution, like things like trade deals, things like economic cooperation, that then actively disincentivize conflict and other abuses.
You are less likely to go to war with someone when you have a free trade deal with them.
Because those deals are more common, because of institutions like the united nations, conflict is less common.
Our second independent point, something I just briefly want to touch upon, is that the alternative to all of this is unmitigated steamrolling by force.
If you look at the grand trajectory of history, powerful actors have always bullied less powerful actors.
The united nations might not stop that in its entirety, but through norm building, collective security, all these important things, you mitigate the extent to which power is abused.
You create norms that say there are certain things that are unacceptable.
As a result of that, even if it's on the margins, the united nations makes the world a better place for the people who don't have power.
Proud to oppose.