I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should implement zero tolerance policies.
Our first independent point is that decision making, especially at a school level, often requires context.
So on a zero tolerance policy, let's say with fighting for example, there's often a lot of grey zones in terms of you know who's at fault, what the damages are, that sort of thing.
So we think that creating a zero tolerance policy necessitates the administration saying you know: " this is the line in the sand essentially that cannot be crossed. "
But those lines in the sand are very difficult to determine when there's a lot of haziness.
So for example you know accounting for self defense for example or for you know predicted harm that's going to be incurred in a such a need to lash out.
That sort of thing is difficult to account for when there's a line in the sand.
And we think it's valuable than to allow administrators to make decisions based on context, based on what specific events have taken place and determine who's at fault based on that.
Op response to gov responds to this by telling you: " but there's going to be you know some level of subjectiveness in the implementation and that specifically racism could be injected into these discussions over who's at fault. "
I think the problem with this line of analysis is two fold: the first being that I think it's broadly not unique.
I think a lot of the time you can determine policies such as you know the legal structures in our country do, that create firm lines in the sand, yet still engage in significant racial discrimination.
So I'm not sure that that subjectiveness is necessarily the tipping point between whether or not you know a rule set is actually going to have disproportionate impacts on specific racial groups.
But secondarily, I think that that level of subjectiveness can also work the other way.
That is that oftentimes, because these lines in the sand can specifically just target crimes that are, or not crimes, but I guess like infractions that are disproportionately racked up by poor children and children of color, that level of subjective as can guarantee a certain level of intervention.
I think especially in like like majority and minority districts, where there are also going to be minority teachers, there's an ability then for individual administrators to make subjective decisions that take into account the unique circumstances faced by minorities.
Our second independent points disillusionment.
So we think that when rules are more or less arbitrary, and based on these lines in the sand that are inherently imperfect, there's a degree of disillusionment accompanied with this.
A lot of the reasons that people you know don't find a lot of respect for authority figures later in life is based on their experiences early in life.
So we think it's necessary then to create a you know basically rule books for children that are principally consistent and make sense, to ensure that they actually maintain their faith in authority structures and maintain their satisfaction with the world that they grow up in.
This is a problem then with regards to zero tolerance policies because the inherent arbitrariness of the policy making insures that children will often find themselves in confusing situations that they don't understand the basis for the punishment that's being given to them.
This in turn yields disillusionment.
Our third and final independent point is that the draconian nature of these policies creates a cyclical harm upon individual that's difficult to escape.
What we mean by this is actually quite similar to what happens in the criminal justice system, where you rack up an infraction and because you've you know gone to prison or whatever, paid whatever fine, you're gonna have more difficulty finding employment or housing, that sort of thing, and as such it's more likely that you're going to commit a crime again.
We think that this is also true of small infractions in schools, with regards to things like the stigma associated with the children.
That you know because the zero tolerance label is slopped on them they're seen as like like a problem kid, and as such administrators are less willing to deal with them and more willing to simply slop more infractions on them without actually engaging in constructive discourse with them.
This in turn creates a cycle that's difficult to escape.
So we think that when you have these blanket policies that don't allow for a lot of subjective analysis of the individual student, you create like essentially administrative systems that are poor at adapting to individual needs, and getting kids out of the cycles.
Proud to oppose.