I am proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should not subsidize agriculture.
So, three independent points.
The first is that subsidies are bad just as sort of like a general thing.
This is true for two reasons.
The first is that they are an inefficient use of capital, that rather than, you know, purchasing these things at market price and giving them to people or supporting the industry through like tax cuts or something like that, we just give them a lump sum of cash.
This is probably a poor use of money.
There's better ways to do it, not just in terms of like whether you want to spend it on like social programs or something, but also just in terms of how you can use it within the industry, that tax cuts, for example, are probably just a better way to ensure that money goes directly to the corporation.
But furthermore, we think that just generally like purchasing goods or something like that is a good way to ensure that the ways in which that industry affects individuals on the ground is best propagated.
Secondly, though, rent-seeking behaviors intrinsic to subsidies.
So what I mean by rent-seeking behavior is that corporations will make decisions on what type of business practices to pursue based not on what they think is maximally efficient, you know, as they would in a normal economy, but what they think is best going to get them government subsidies.
These are often inefficient business practices, like growing whatever type of crop the government thinks is important rather than what the market actually demands and what people are actually looking for, or furthermore, engaging in practices that are, you know, not necessarily great for your business or even great for the local area, something like, you know, different water tactics or different growing tactics, things that are generally set by bureaucrats, not by people that actually understand the industry.
As a result, that rent-seeking behavior, that is, making decisions based on what a government bureaucrat wants, rather than what like your consumers want, creates a market landscape that is extremely harmful to the consumer insofar as it fails to meet their their demands.
Our second independent point is that agriculture, specifically in countries like the US that subsidize it, is probably not a good industry to pursue.
This is because the countries like the US aren't very well situated for it.
Agriculture, you know, drains soil quality and water, and these are things that the US and other related countries are currently lacking in.
I think it's better for countries that are, you know, island countries, for example, that have ready access to these resources, are better situated to pursue these types of agricultural demands.
We think that when the US is well-situated to pursue a certain type of agriculture, for example, we're very good for, like, meat, because we have like large plains in a central part of the country that are good for like growing cattle and things like that, we'll be able to do it without the subsidies, because the market will allow us to do it independently.
That's important, and we think it's important then that the subsidies stop propping up inefficient use of land and resources.
Our third independent point is that by halting subsidies, you allow other countries to specialize more effectively in agricultural industries.
So, importing our agricultural goods instead of just producing them domestically allows foreign markets to specialize.
When the US is isn't trying to, you know, lock down the corn or sugar industries by subsidizing them, countries that are better situated to actually engage in those practices, like the types of countries where corn and sugar actually traditionally come from, are then going to be able to specialize more effectively, because they don't have to worry about the US creating an unbalanced playing field by using its deep pockets to subsidize their domestic industry.
This is beneficial for the global market.
It decreases costs by allowing these , you know, practices to be refined to a tee in the countries that are best equipped to actually refine them, but it also increases quality, again, by refining practices.
For these reasons, proud to propose.