I'm proud to support the motion that we should ban targeted killing.
For the sake of this speech I'm going to focus on drone strikes but we're also open to other forms of targeted killing such as like targeted raids where for example, seal team six dropped in on osama bin laden's you know compound killed him and then immediately left.
So three independent points the first of which is that targeted killing is illegal and a violation of international law.
So specifically the thing that makes this legal in like US code is some like bizarre shenanigans around article fifty that let the CIA do way different stuff than the army.
But it's notable in that the army is completely restricted from this type of like one in and then leave immediately type of operation to the point where like the reason the army can do this now is because george w.
Bush made this like weird combined forces between the CIA and the army so that the army could start doing CIA stuff.
It is all very very sketchy in terms of its legal founding partially on a domestic bases but certainly on an international basis.
Like what we do in terms of drone strikes is flagrantly in violation of international law through the UN, in violation of the UN human rights commission.
Like this is all very very clearly delineated as something we are not allowed to do partially because of the sovereignty infringement issues that we are essentially attacking a country which we have not formally declared any sort of war against and oftentimes we are conducting attacks in country that have a sovereign and stable government such as pakistan.
But we secondly think that this is a legal issue that's complicated by the fact that there is actual like murder involved with this.
We think that a, often US citizens are killed in these attacks or at least rarely anyway which create significant complications but secondly, extra-judicial killings in general are bad.
We're not giving these people trials.
We're not giving them any sort of attempt to defend themselves.
Usually it is like a sum algorithm with like a computer in some CIA headquarters in this person sitting behind like the drone strike controller just like hits the button and it's over.
We don't think that this is fair.
We don't think that this is legal.
Our second independent point though, is that there is an ethical concern with regard to civilian casualties.
We think that this concern arises when you have like drone strikes that come down and you're supposed to be killing like one person in this marketplace and instead you just take out like sixty odd people that happen to be in the vicinity.
I think regardless of what your interpretation of the danger posed by this one individual is, it is definitely problematic to incur so much suffering on the part of innocents for the sake of taking out that one person.
Oftentimes I think you will see that terrorist attacks, particularly in terms of how it affects the united states, don't result in that many casualties.
Like nine eleven aside, there are like not that many deaths by terrorists on the yearly basis.
Given that, the innocent people that we kill alone in collateral damage through drone strikes vastly outweighs what these terrorists would be doing if we just did nothing right.
Like I think we are inherently causing more suffering than we are maybe alleviating.
But our third and final independent point from a strategic perspective these attacks are unproductive and the reason is the hydra effect.
When you take out a terrorist using a drone strike it creates significant collateral damage.
It raises anti-american sentiment.
Like regardless of what this individual pakistani's thoughts are on like the taliban or whatever terrorist group, they are now likely to be opposed to the UN US because they see the US as being responsible for the deaths of people that they knew potentially their loved ones.
This rise in anti US sentiment is often capitalized on by terrorist organizations who are looking to increase their recruitment rates, that in turn undermines the strategic goals of the US.
So even if you put aside like all of the like like moral like legal stuff, you still just have this like very pragmatic issue that is at the heart of drone strikes in the collateral damage they cause that is directly undermining US strategic interests.
Proud to oppose.