I am proud to oppose the motion that we should invest in green technology.
As an overview to this, we want to establish a rational egoist framework.
One that infinitely prioritizes the ability of current people, and specifically individual people, to prioritize their own interests.
We think the reasoning behind this framework is two fold: first, we think that other people do not have obligations to other people.
That is you cannot confine an individual to act on the behalf of another.
The reason for this is that we think it is fundamentally rights violative to do so.
Individual people must consent into any course of action in order for life to have meaning to it and we think that confining people's actions in order to benefit those of others is necessarily rights violative.
But secondly, we think this framework is particularly important to the rights of future people and those being disregarded because it is impossible for one to know the preferences of another, particularly a future person who is incapable of even articulating their preferences to someone in the status quo.
As such, we don't think that it is rational to make these decisions on the behalf of other people but rather we should prioritize our immediate interests.
Two independent points: the first is that we think that there is significant harm to the job market created by these investments.
Green technology, as government underlines, is inherently zero sum.
So it's going to eclipse other components of the of the energy infrastructure we have in the status quo, like you know natural gas, oil, coal, that sort of thing.
The problem is that these industries are bigger employers per, you know, energy unit essentially than something like green technology.
This is articulated in two ways, first, the raw number people that are employed by this industry, so a coal plant needs like a lot of staffers moving things around, actually like shoveling the coal, running the machines, that sort of stuff.
Whereas something like a solar plant really only needs like a handful of people to just sort of look over the machines and make sure nothing malfunctions.
But secondly, there's a gap in terms of skill levels.
We think that green energy plants provide a lot of like skilled engineering jobs but they don't provide a lot of like lower income manual jobs and this is a problem because we want our employment market to essentially ensure that everybody has jobs.
The worst thing that we can see in our employment market is a world where we accrue all of the capital into a small group of people by shrinking the size of the market but increasing the skill level.
So I think we prefer a world then where our energy infrastructure employs more people at a lower skill level.
Our second independent point is that transitioning to green tech would increase energy costs.
So in the status quo it's just easy to observe that something like coal or natural gas is incredibly cheap when compared to something like solar, wind, nuclear, geothermal, and the problem that occurs then is two fold when you transition to this.
First, you just increased the costs because you're looking at a system that is just more expensive to maintain, the technology is just like costlier, and as such it increases energy costs because the manufacturers in the, you know, development plants actually have to push those costs off to somewhere and it comes out of the consumer's pocket.
But we think the second issue is that most of the people that will be able to take advantage of this green technology will be wealthy people.
So what happens in the immediate term then, is that the number of people on these like public natural gas or coal lot power lines decreases.
And this is an issue because of scaling because now the few people that are left behind, disproportionately poor people, have to pay more money because the system can operate at a lower cost per person when there's more people on it.
This is because of stagnant costs that are just universal to the system regardless of how many users there are.
And when there's more people on the system, those costs can be distributed more thinly across the larger pool of people.
Taking all the rich people off the system then and putting them on solar will then maximize the impact that this has on the pocketbook of someone who's already poor and already suffering.
As such we think this is unjust.
Proud to oppose.