I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban extreme sports.
Two independent points.
First is that extreme sports are dangerous.
So this is true for two reasons.
One is just the inherency of it.
That the nature of extreme sports is that they are extreme.
Something like barreling down a mountainside ridiculously high speeds with minimal safety equipment is just a dangerous activity.
This is something that you know is generates a high risk of actual harm because that's the point.
In fact, generally speaking, extreme sports specifically seek to you know maximize the amount of danger that the participants are exposed to but secondly they're dangerous because there's little regulation.
They're established as particularly a counterculture to more traditional sports and are often branching off from these other sports.
This means that they're less subject to the types of strict regulations and safety requirements that dominate other sports and that means that in turn, the likelihood of injury is even more extreme and I think it's hard to wrap your head around you know how much that regulation really matters but think of it this way, that sports we traditionally look at as like mainstream sports like say football, are generally really really really regulated and yet despite that they're still massively dangerous.
That football creates huge risk for concussions and other bodily injuries that last like long long into people's lifetimes and often result in early premature deaths.
So without that safety regulation, without the you know the helmets an the shoulder pads and the other things that are designed to make the sport at least marginally safer, those massive impacts and those massive harms or even further magnified.
This brings me to our second independent point that the reason why people can't meaningfully just consent into these harms is because the nature of extreme sports is such that they target information gaps particularly among children.
This is a deliberate move.
Extreme sports coordinators recognize that children are impressionable, that they want to sort of adrenaline rush associated with extreme sports and because they are at like sort of the peak of their physical capacity they are the most capable of actually engaging in these sports properly or not properly but you know like competently.
This is a problem though because since children are so impressionable and so susceptible to things that they see as you know new or unique or fun or interesting are cool, this tricks them into assuming risk.
Children are usually not properly you know made to understand how dangerous these sports are and even when they are aware, usually their understanding of the world is so limited that they actually see the danger as a good thing.
Oftentimes children will look at you know this like high speed snowboarding or whatever and say oh that seems like a lot of fun and it's dangerous that's cool without being like oh right but like I could die.
So I think generally then, it's fine to ban you know this activity insofar as the consent is you know very nonmeaningful given that they are specifically targeting individuals who have limited capacity to meaningfully consent in the first place.
Proud to propose.