I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban corporal punishment.
Three independent points: first is that corporal punishment is abusive and creates harm.
This harm is manifest in two particular ways.
First is the physical harm, you know, that's intrinsic to corporal punishment, something like, you know, being physically assaulted is obviously, you know, harmful.
It hurts.
That's the point.
But secondly, there's psychological harm intrinsic to it that when someone undergoes repeated or even individual acts of corporal punishment, it often scars them permanently.
This is because it represents a broken sense of trust between the child and someone that is supposed to be their caretaker, that when their parent, someone that is specifically supposed to be protecting their safety and looking out for them, becomes an abuser, becomes someone that is hurting them and damaging them and breaking that trust, there is a break of sense then with the child, who needs structure in their life and needs protecting and their capacity to feel that they are being protected by anyone.
This is an issue and can often manifest itself in ways that stretch long beyond childhood, with trust issues, lack of willingness to, you know, associate with senses of authority and many other problems.
Given that this is a lot of harm that's pretty intrinsic to corporal punishment, the government should obviously do its part to reduce net suffering for people that live under the reign of that government, and as such you should ban corporal punishment.
Our second independent point is that children cannot consent meaningfully into corporal punishment.
Generally, when we talk about things that are harmful, the question about whether or not we should institute a ban is basically whether or not that harm is so significant that there's no way that the government could feasibly allow people to just consent into that harm based on, you know, just the ability to consent into harm generally through, you know, arguments that are mostly contention upon autonomy.
The problem though is that children just can't consent into this type of harm.
It's not a decision made by them.
They're being abused by an other person, so the only argument then that can be made on autonomy is whether or not, you know, it's just the parents' right to decide how to parent.
I think the problem here, though, is that there is a significant amount of , you know, variability that you'd be giving to abusers then if you were to make the decision based on, you know, just saying this is the parents' right to choose.
Because the reality is that there are just genuinely abusive parents, even if you think there is some sort of line in the sand where this is a legitimate parenting tactic.
Given that, I think that if you don't have a mechanism for cracking down on that abuse, you'll never get around to actually helping the kids who are just genuinely suffering at the hands of parents or caretakers who are not acting in their best interests.
This isn't something children agree to so we shouldn't make them beholden to the consequences of these actions.
Our third independent point is that a ban normalizes reporting.
So, I think in a lot of places where corporal punishment isn't already illegal, there's kind of this general standard that a lot of people who are potential witnesses to corporal punishment just don't say much of anything, because they think of it as a private affair.
This is often then reinforced by the fact that the government doesn't actually see this as, you know, something that should be illegal and as such, this isn't even when it is really serious abuse that would go beyond what we consider to be corporal punishment, it's not reported because people think of it as a private affair.
When the government though puts a ban on corporal punishment, I think that normalizes the idea that this is a problem, that this is something that you should bring to the attention of the like to child protection services or whatever.
Because this is something that there is a serious likelihood of abuse, when you have that ban, you signal that this is a problem and that this is something people should speak up about.
And that goes a long ways in ensuring that children don't have to suffer at the hands of abusers.
Proud to propose.