I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion that we should abolish zoos.
Three independent points of analysis.
First, that better regulation is the trajectory of human history and inevitable in the construct that government gives us.
Secondly, that animals don't have rights and as such you should vote off other issues like human enjoyment.
And thirdly, that even if you buy the analysis that animals do have rights and they are going to continue being infringed in the long term, that zoos bring benefits to animals that are in worse positions relatively speaking, and on net this is beneficial to animal rights.
So, on the first point of analysis, that we can just have better regulation in the long term.
I think it's true that generally speaking, if you buy all these arguments that government gives you about why animals have rights, it is probably true that society liberalizes in the long term, and as a result will probably buy into these arguments that they have merit in the long term.
Given that, I think the reasonable trajectory of society is to simply do things like give animals more space, and not separate them when they're in these zoos.
So I think in the long term, we solve for these systemic injustices in a way that can co-op to the majority of their offense.
This is true, because even if we prove marginal offense, which I think you will agree that by the end of this speech there will be some level of offense that is inherent to our side of the house, you can just vote off with that instead, because in the long term there are harms that are wash.
My second independent argument is that animals do not have rights.
So, if this is true, just put off of human enjoyment, right?
That families like going to zoos and things like that, because they don't have rights, they don't have sort of moral value, and that's just the meaningful tipping point in the round.
So, why don't they have rights.
This is because rights are a human construct.
I don't think there's really this like line in the sand that really determines oh, this is a right, this is a thing that we inherently should always have.
If nothing this is just true because sometimes rights come into conflict, and then you have to choose.
So, I think the more reasonable way to view things is just sort of like net utility.
But the problem then is that if we're talking about whether or not this is a right, if god's argument is it is a right and therefore animals have the ability to sort of get their way, and like have access to this utility, then that's a bad standard, because humans determined what a right is and it seems that the consensus in the status quo is that animals don't have rights, that rights or something are reserved for humans.
So at the point where the standard that they utilize on side government is something that is inapplicable to the group that they are talking about, I don't think that's a reason to vote for side government.
Our third independent point is that animals in the wild, generally speaking, are better off because of zoos.
This is true because zoos are generally run by wildlife foundations and other conservationists groups.
The money is then redirected to a lot of efforts that help the animals that are most harmed in the status quo.
Things like combating deforestation, combating poaching in like rural africa, places like that.
So this is important, because these animals are the ones that are most harmed in the status quo, the ones that are actively losing their habitat and access to food, the ones that are being hunted day in and day out.
I think these are the animals that are suffering the most, if you buy that animals have this sort of suffering that they internalize and that they have rights that we should be protecting.
Given that, I think this is just a simple question of if you cut off the funding source for these inherently good things, for these things that help the worst off animals, then you create a lot of problems in terms of what the utility calculus is.
I think it's pretty intuitive then.
If you buy that the animals in the wild who are actively losing their habitats are suffering more than the animals that are in zoos, which at least have access to like food and some things, and in the long term are probably going to have better habitats to live in, then I think it's pretty intuitive that you should vote for the side that preserves the funding structure for combating the harms that are internalized by the animals in the wild.
Proud to oppose.