I'm proud to support the motion that we should make community service mandatory.
We'll model this says around the time someone leaves high school so upon graduation or upon dropping out if that's what they do.
They have to complete a certain number of hours of community service within the next year.
You know we're not going to defend a specific number but we'll say something substantial like say you know a hundred or so probably not that different from what you would expect from like a normal like prison sentence that issues community service.
We would also be willing to delay having to do this if you're going to do something else at that point in your life so like if you're going to college for example we're fine with allowing people to you know delay their community service requirement until after college.
But generally what we're talking about here is a requirement of a substantial amount of community service right as someone is becoming an adult.
So three independent points, the first is that we think that people benefit a lot from communities you know specifically the you know the networks that exist within them, the support systems, even just the beautification efforts that exist in a lot of communities like places that have a community garden or a park.
And we think that the work in creating that sense of community is often imbalanced, that activists within communities will often put in a lot more legwork than your average person.
We think then that by mandating community service we attempt to adjust for that imbalance, we say if you are living in this community and if you are deriving the benefits of being within a community we think that you should be contributing towards that community.
This can be simple, this can be you know picking up trash off the side of the road, this can be prettying up a park or a community garden, this can be putting in hours at a local soup kitchen.
We think there are a lot of ways in which people can sort of pay it forward and make up essentially for the benefits that they have received from living within that well kept community.
Our second independent point though is that this just leads to a better society that you know when you have people staffing the soup kitchen and when you have people making the parks look prettier that is just a world that is better to live in.
We generally would just be very happy defending any policy that says hey, we're going to implement this and the world's going to be a lot better because we implemented it.
That is generally a rationale that is pretty easy to get behind and we would say that if you can implement a law and it just makes people a lot happier and it makes the world a lot better we think that is a significantly you know that is a a sufficient reason to pass that law.
But our third and final independent point is that we think it creates a sense of obligation or a sense of belonging within communities, that is that when people put a lot of work into something they become invested in it.
You want to see it succeed, you want to see it thrive, you become better personally attached to it and it's beneficial when people have that sense of attachment to a community.
A lot of what the government does in the status quo is things that could reasonably be done by communities.
Obviously we're not talking with the big things like say militaries but we are talking about things like upkeeping parks and you know things like that.
We think that if people were just willing to put in a lot of work for this if people just genuinely cared a lot about it, we would be able to do things like reduce government expenditures, we would be able to just see less people trashing parks and creating that work to be done if people just cared about the parks in the first place.
We think then that by passing this policy and by requiring people to you know put a significant amount of their life and their work into just caring for this community, we think then that that will allow people to enable people or encourage people to be more respectful of that community and to really just help keep that community preserved in a way that minimizes the obligation of others to come in and clean up after them.
Proud to propose.