I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt atheism.
What we mean by this is that we believe preferable if the people of the world essentially became atheists.
We're not going to endorse a specific government policy or anything like that but we do want to say basically that it is preferable for individuals to become atheists rather than subscribe to a religion.
Two independent points.
The first is that atheism is simply a more logical position, so I think on an individual level you as a person which is want to adopt atheism because this is the more reasonable world view.
There isn't any proof really that any sort of deity out there exists and I think we hold this bizarre standard when we're thinking about religion that well if we can't prove the negative that then we should just you know assume that there is a god out there.
Fundamentally we don't apply that logic to anything else.
Generally when there's no evidence that something exists we just assume that it doesn't exist.
If we took sort of that like evenhanded professor approach with everything, we would have ridiculous belief structures like individual room if we just assumed that everything that like we can't prove isn't in the room is in there we would have a very full room and that's obviously not a particularly straightforward way of putting it but the bottom line is that it's not logical to believe in something just because you can't prove it isn't there.
At that point then it's not a reasonable belief structure to assume that there is any sort of deity out there just on the basis of faith.
Gov will obviously talk about like false hope and just sort of like why it's better to you know you sort of fool yourself into the lie if the lie is positive.
I'll get into why religion as an institution causes more harm than good in a bit but I also want to establish this just on an individual level truth seeking is an important goal that you know believing the world around you as trying to approximate it is close to reality as you can that's important because you make decisions based on your understanding of the physical world.
So if you make decisions on the basis that you think there is a god such as you know whether or not you should sink a ton of your time into you know performing religious duties and things like that, you are undergoing a less than perfectly optimal life.
We think it is better for you to believe the world as it actually is or at least as it probably is in order to ensure that you are making the best decisions with your life.
The second independent point we'd like to advance is that religion as an institution is bad.
The problem fundamentally with any religion is that it insists that there is a particular viewpoint that is inherently correct and it that it is in opposition to other viewpoints.
Even nonviolent religions you know buddhism for example is notable in the lack of violence that is exerted over the years still have that sense of superiority so there are certainly examples of religions that have engaged in outright discrimination on the basis of that sense of superiority, christianity for example has engaged in scores of wars over this notion but also just the general moral policing often associated with it.
Something even as peaceful as buddhism is guilty of this that there is a sense that because you're religious doctrine said something like for example homosexuality is a sin that you cannot engage in that of your own volition despite the fact that this is a personal choice and that it's unreasonable for others to police that personal choice.
We think then that when these institutions exists that say x view point is innately preferable, that's a problem because it limits people's freedom to do as they please especially when those actions don't have any sort of third-party harms associated with them.
At the point where we believe it's a better world where people can do what makes them happy, then we think that it is bad to have institutions that prevent that from occurring.
Proud to propose.