I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should fight for tibetan independence.
Three independent points.
First, nation states are as a construct a good idea.
When we think of states we often think of them as homogeneous entities that we you know for example think of china as you know having chinese people.
It is rare for us to really think of these states in the way that they actually are, that they are a coalition generally of different ethnic identities and different national identities.
The national identities are particularly important because while different ethnic identities can very easily coexist for example the united states has a wide array of different ethnic identities that still all nationally identify is american different national identities get complicated.
Because when a individual group of people identifies themselves as so wholly different from those that govern the majority of the country that they don't see themselves as even being represented by that government, that inevitably yields tension.
I think you can see this pretty clearly in tibet that there is that strong degree of tension between them and the chinese government.
And from a principled stand point therefore, before even getting into the pragmatics of that, it makes sense to have individual nationalities governing their own states because the basis upon which we even you know observe governments and say that they are these you know just things to exist is because they advocate for the people that they represent, that the chinese government you know advocates for chinese people and that the american government advocates for americans.
We have these institutions specifically to represent our personal interests or at least our collective interests and when that government doesn't work for a specific group of people within the country that's harmful.
So we think that generally speaking tibetans should have their own government in order to ensure that they you know have proper advocates for for themselves.
Our second independent point is the abuses that are intrinsic to this type of approach though, because I think in the status quo what you see is significant human rights abuses from the chinese government upon tibetans.
This ranges from anything to you know you know mass killings and mass beatings down to you know political disenfranchisement and restrictions on free speech.
These are really serious abuses.
These are intrinsic human rights that we care very deeply about when administered to our own people and I think we should care about suffering regardless of where it happens in the world.
You know just because something isn't happening in our backyard doesn't make it make it not important.
Given that then it makes sense to have tibetan independence because you don't have that significant of an abuse when it's coming from a foreign country or if you do if you know china who cared so deeply about this that they would be willing to start an international war I think there's a much clear cut mechanism then for us to intervene and for us to stop that abuse.
You know there are international treaties that prevent that sort of thing and by extension china would be a lot less willing to engage in such vehement abuse if there were more rigid structures preventing it.
Our third independent point is just quite simply that tibet has a historic right to that land.
It's obviously kind of hazy to parse out went what exactly constitutes a historic right but I think that when a specific people, a specific= you know national group has occupied land for a very very long time and continues to do so but are simply being subjected to the rule of a of a different group, I think that's when you constitute that land as their historic right.
It is land that they as a people have occupied for millennia and or perhaps centuries rather and this is something that's deeply important to them.
I think at the point where they root their identity so firmly in the land that they occupy, that constitutes a really serious obligation on our part to ensure that this is something that they can remain a part of and that they have control over, to ensure that a foreign entity doesn't you know persecute them in their homeland.
Proud to propose.