I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should institute or introduce vouchers for schools.
So in terms the modeling we're just going to do this at the primary and secondary levels.
We're obviously not talking about colleges here but this is something that we would essentially issue a voucher for individuals that want to leave the public school system and instead go to you know a charter school or a private school, a religious school, cover some home schooling costs basically anything outside of that system.
We're obviously not going to let you know everybody leave the public school system.
We would allow people to apply for vouchers and then do it based on a lottery so that we can keep this system in control.
So two independent points.
The first is that a voucher system maximizes school choice.
I think there is a proactive right to choose what type of education your child receives.
You know we would say that there's obviously religious justifications for this that there are very profound you know orthodox jewish students for example have a religious justification for a certain type of education and we think it is an infringement on the religious liberty to restrict them from that type of education.
But secondly we would say that just preferences in general are also a perfectly fine justification.
That you know people at the end of the day have you know particular preferences and they have the freedom to act on those preferences if they believe that their child would just you know do better at a montessori school or what have you that it is there you know within their rights to send their children to a montessori school.
I think the problem though right now is that those types of schools are often cost restrictive for people that want to send their children there so voucher program is useful in that it allows people to you know go to the type of schools they would want to.
I think a lot of the costliness of this is subsumed by the fact that you know longer have to pay for them being in the public school system, so on a per student basis your public school spending goes down, you can reroute that into the voucher.
We're willing to bite that the voucher might be a little more expensive than you know whatever they would incur as a public school student because of scaling.
That said we're fine with that because the trade off is that we're maximizing school choice in allowing these parents to put their their children in the you know schooling paths that they believe are most appropriate for them.
Our second independent point is that it increases educational opportunity for poorer students.
So I think often when you look at the public school system in this country you see a system that is plagued by inadequacy particularly it like deep into inner cities there just are are poorly run schools that are deeply underfunded for political reasons that often feel quite intractable that despite the best efforts of people over taught decades and decades of work there has just been very little progress in advancing the status it and the effectiveness of these public schools.
Given that, there is often a cycle of poverty created by poor schooling that you know if I am a poor parent and then I have my children and they then have to go to public school because I can't afford them to send them anywhere better, then they wind up staying poor because their poor education means that they have trouble you know finding gainful employment after graduation and this creates a cycle that's very very difficult to escape.
I think vouchers then give an opportunity to escape that vicious cycle, that you can transfer allow students to you know go into the private schools that are significantly better because they don't have you know the restrictions that are created by public bureaucracy or by funding issues and you break down that cost barrier that you know previously held in poor families from actually receiving a quality education.
We obviously can only do this on the margins.
We can't do it for everybody but I still think progress on the margins is significantly preferable to the status quo where children have a lot of trouble breaking out of these cycles of poverty.
Proud to propose.