I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should increase internet censorship.
We'll model this as specifically censoring for safety related reasons, so in times of social unrest for example such as like during revolutions we will defend greater limits on what type of information can be accessed from within the country's border.
So if for example like a coup is being staged we're fine with the government restricting information within that country's borders on information like regarding the coup and like the political beliefs of the opposition.
We will also defend just generally during all times restricting access to material that propagates radical beliefs.
So for example like sites like the views of like terrorism or even just like just very radical political ideologies that call for like it a call to arms essentially.
Anything that endorses violence particularly explicitly against the state but also just generally against civilians.
So our first point under this is safety.
So we would say that information is something that's pretty key to taking action, that people don't just sort of like wake up one day and are like I'm going to overthrow the state.
This is something they're generally indoctrinated into, that is you know they they go on internet forums, they you know get access to these radical ideologies, and then are usually sort of drafted in based on what is generally pretty targeted practices.
So radical groups will specifically go after people that feel like they have been neglected by society at large and then building off of that sort of insecurity and that sense of isolation will draft them into a radical cause.
We think it is therefore reasonable for the state to take particular action to mitigate these the proliferation of these ideas for two reasons really.
One is that there isn't much of a legitimate free speech claim at the point where the reasons for joining these movements aren't often based in like genuine deep held political beliefs or even ideological beliefs when these are religiously tainted movements but rather for like socialization reasons.
That doesn't really constitute protected free speech so we don't think that the ideology or movement as a whole should have the right to propagate the ideology.
But secondly we think that even if there is a legitimate ideological basis for subscribing to these movements, the harm that they endorse significantly outweighs the you know the actual like speech claims that are intrinsic to it.
This is similar to the shouting fire in a crowded theater test, that is your free speech your right to free speech ends at the point where your free speech causes like actual tangible harm.
Going into more sort of like generally times of social unrest though we think that it is always important to maintain the stability of the state to ensure that we can ensure the safety of the civilians.
That's particularly significant because we believe that ideologies that undermine the legitimacy of the state such as like violent opposition movements are particularly pernicious in their capacity to cause large suffering within the country.
Often attempts to overthrow states result in large amounts of violence and suffering that are intrinsic to the process of overthrowing the state, something like a civil war and we think that is a significant enough harm to warrant a crackdown on these types of speech.
Our second point just really quickly is about parental rights.
So we'd like to establish that while people can consent into consuming information, children often don't have the capacity to meaningfully consent into this because they don't understand the ramifications of what they are looking at.
This is why we're fine with parents having the ability to filter what sort of information children have access to, but the internet makes it possible for children to circumvent the wishes of their parents.
We think then it is completely reasonable for the state to intervene in this process and fully restrict access to certain information in the interests of insuring that parents can decide whether or not children are exposed to particular ideologies and thoughts.
Proud to propose.