I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the american jobs act.
So I do want to establish that this act never actually was passed it would have been a large infrastructure and jobs spending bill coupled with a lot of like tax cuts and regulation cuts.
So I'll be taking this from the perspective of like just defending that the bill should have passed in the first place, that you know basically gov's ground is that we're comfortable with the fact that it didn't pass gov's ground is that you know it should have passed.
I see two independent points then.
First is that the american jobs act would have increased employment.
So there are a couple ways in which this is done.
First, payroll taxes would have been cut that decreases expenditures employers have to pay because those are money that's money that's essentially by the employer in terms of how much they have to put into the paycheck the individual employee.
Second is decreased regulations so these are generally onerous things that put a large burden on individual businesses and increase their or minimize rather their bottom line by creating extra expenses.
And third is infrastructure projects which you know just create jobs in the sense that there have to be people that you know actually build these things and actually work on these construction jobs.
This is important because this was all targeted towards the individuals that would have benefitted the most or that would have all been harmed the most by the recession.
The types of low-income blue collar jobs that would have collapsed out early because they were generally operating in industries with thin profit margins would've been hit quickly also things like construction that are very reliant on you know borrowing from banks and things like that and what it felt large ripples out from you know the failure of those financial institutions.
These are people who really really were suffering at the time and these are industries particularly that were losing employees quickly and needed to be specifically targeted to ensure that there was less harms intrinsic to the economy.
This is especially important because it would have mitigated a downward cycle that will allow the recession to go on for so long.
When people lose their jobs, even in the industries that aren't particularly affected by the recession, there's a lot of suffering felt and the reason for this is that those industries don't get as much money when people lose their jobs.
So if I'm a blue collar worker and you know I work for a construction firm that fails because some loan that we had with the bank failed out, because the bank collapsed on the recession, I now lose all my employees and my employees are jobless.
Those employees in turn can't buy things, they can't participate in the economy because they don't have money.
So things like the auto industry or the restaurant industry or any number of industries that are that need a customer base to operate then begin to suffer because the unemployment rate mitigates the amount of people that can actually buy your products.
This has a ripple effect throughout the economy so keeping these people employed, insuring that they have the capacity to participate in the economy at the same rate that they used to, is really really important to keeping your economy from collapsing out the bottom when a small recession occurs.
Our second independent point is infrastructure spending.
So well the you know primary focus of the american jobs act was to have this infrastructure spending just to make jobs.
The infrastructure spending itself is also really important, things like building you know roads and bridges and what not that's important to ensuring that people can get around the country effectively but also from an economic perspective insuring that they can do it in a cost efficient manner.
This is important for things like the shipping industry which in turn affects the prices of lots of things that we consume like food for example.
When you ensure that those prices are low by giving us reliable and safe infrastructure, that insures in turn that you know basically our economy keeps turning at a better rate, there's more stability and that things are cheaper.
Proud to oppose.