I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should limit the right to asylum.
We would define this as simply you know sort of moving the threshold up so we would just be less willing to let people enter our country on asylum basis all the way out really to just an outright ban but anything principally consistent with just a a move upwards in terms of the threshold.
Our first independent point is that other countries have a right to enforce laws and that that is an extension of sovereignty.
I think there are a lot of purposes of any criminal justice system and obviously some of them aren't particularly affected by asylum you know your ability to like rehabilitate someone for example you know if they're not in your country anymore it doesn't particularly matter like that's on them but there are other things like for example retribution and also just the you know you're deterrence that are really really impeded by impunity.
When someone flees to another country and receives asylum from from being you know actually prosecuted under the laws that your country has set not only does that undermine your capacity to you know to to be a you know a sovereign nation that that has control over its own borders but also really undermines the effectiveness of your system.
It is difficult to say you know we are deterring people from engaging in crime if there is this image of impunity because they were able to seek asylum and go abroad.
And we think obviously as an individual country setting a standard on asylum this is something that from a principle perspective is unjust to facilitate.
Other countries do matter and their capacity to you know set sovereign laws over their own borders also matter.
So I think this is something perspective that you should in turn respect but it also has a practical impact on you with that if you set this precedent in the international community that you were going to grant asylum there's nothing stopping other countries from granting asylum to people fleeing your country and I think the reciprocity there then makes it such that you want to you know avoid granting asylum when possible because you want to ensure that other countries are also going to respect your wishes when it becomes your turn.
So I think the this leads me into the second point which is sort of the broadly international relations harms.
I think generally speaking at any country it doesn't really matter which one you're talking about here, its incentive is always to have positive relations with pretty much every other country.
There's not really much of a benefit to having you know animosity and neutrality if possible is usually desirable.
If you're if you're not you know actively going to war with someone you can do trade with them, you can have any sort of number of bilateral agreements that are mutually beneficial.
Asylum gets in the way of that.
Asylum makes it such that you are actively telling another country we don't have respect for your laws but rather we think that you are wrong on this and that therefore we're going to grant this person asylum.
I think in a vacuum then it's clear that this is something that can really impact your country's capacity to have a positive relationship with other members of the international community.
Our third independent point is specifically the danger that asylum poses to you.
So I think that when we look at this, and this is particularly important with you know people that are seeking asylum from regimes that are going after you know like terrorists and things like that, it's really important to keep in mind that these people like left their country for a reason that they did something against the law and I think admitting these people into your country then poses a particular risk onto you.
It means that you are assuming whatever it is that they did and you're granting them impunity for it essentially and that's something especially if it's an act of violence could really have serious impacts on your country and the citizens of your country.
Proud to propose.