I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban boarding schools.
Our first independent point is regarding parental choice.
So we think that there are very legitimate reasons why an individual parent would want to send their kid to boarding school.
As gov mentions, these are generally very prestigious schools of extremely high quality.
There're also more practical reasons, like the benefits specifically of a child being in a boarding school away.
So, we think the parents often then do you have justification for sending their child to these schools, both from the perspective of what's in their best interests and from what's in the perspective of the kid's best interest.
This is important then because I think specifically we get a lot of argumentation out of side government as to just like, " here are some potential things that could go wrong in boarding schools. "
The parent is, though, in both the case of their own interests and in the kid's interests, the best decision-maker, not the government.
And the reason for this is that the government simply doesn't know what's best for each individual people.
With individuals like the parent, we just allow people to make their own decisions because they know what's best for them, and assuming that there's no third party harms were fine with it.
, you know, people are even allowed to consent into harm themselves.
With the children, we make a slightly different calculation.
We say: you, as a child you know, haven't really experienced the world to the full extent that makes you capable of making informed decisions for yourself.
Therefore, we proxy off your decision-making power to the parent who, despite not being you, is still the one individual who is most capable of making informed decisions on your behalf.
That is, this is a person who both understands the way the world works and the consequences of particular actions, but also is the most likely individual, other than yourself, to have your best interests in mind.
Therefore, we are particularly comfortable with affording largely the rights of children to make their own decisions off to their parents.
That is, we allow the parents to do it for them.
And if the parents decide that boarding school is something that, on balance, it benefits the individual child, then so be it.
That is their decision to make, and we think that if they are in a an informed position to make that decision, this is a reasonable thing to let them do.
Our second independent point is getting towards really the societal impacts that go tries to draw out from these schools, and that's resource competition.
So specifically we think that gov has this misunderstanding of what happens when you tell people they can't go to boarding school anymore.
Because there seems to be this assumption that because boarding schools drive inequality, if you just tell all the rich kids who go to boarding schools and pay lots of tuition to go to them, " no, you have to go to public school now, " they will then, you know, put all their money into public schools, and the money will just transfer off in as will the resources.
The problem here is twofold.
One: boarding school kids won't go to public schools.
They'll just go to different private schools that are less prestigious than the boarding schools but still quite prestigious and quite , you know, disproportionately wealthy.
But secondly, even if they did go to public schools, what would actually happen is because the public schools are paid for using property taxes that are paid even if you don't go to the school, the quality of the education would not increase in any way, shape or form, because the amount of capital flowing into the school wouldn't change.
Instead, there would just be an influx of students going there, so there'd be more people vying for the same pool of resources.
That, in turn, means a worse educational system for all.
Furthermore, we don't even think that this solves for the equity concerns that government has, because these wealthy students are better equipped to gain access to those limited resources.
Their parents have political sway over the board often.
They their money can go into the PTA coffers and things like that that afford them better resources.
These kids can still pay for tutors.
There are lots of structural advantages wealthy children have that don't go away on side gov and as such, equity doesn't simply materialize.
Proud to oppose.