I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that urbanization and the trend of urbanization over the last you know a few decades is on net bad.
Three independent points.
First is that population density has serious externalities.
I think principal among these two is health and pollution.
So when we talk about health having lots of people housed in a particularly dense area where they're constantly in close quarters contributes to the spread of disease.
It also contributes to you know things like secondhand smoke at all all other sorts of you know problems that are contingent upon people being in close quarters consistently.
But secondly with pollution I think this happens in a lot of ways.
One is that you know cars for example have a lot more pollution by virtue of the fact that there are spending a lot more time stalled in traffic, they get worse mileage, more gas is consumed so this increases demand for it.
You have more light pollution particularly with the you know denser aggregation of buildings, you have more physical pollution affecting smaller ecosystems because so much is coming from one particularly small area that the local ecosystem and you know sections of particularly like the sky and ozone directly above these centers is disproportionately affected.
So we think crowding all of it into a small location is really really harmful.
Secondly is that urbanization develops an elite class very quickly that excludes rural areas.
This happens really through two ways.
One is that because a lot of white collar work and other like high you know very very wealthy industries are housed within urban areas wealth accrues quickly within these regions at the expense of rural areas.
This is important because it means that physically speaking if you want to be wealthy you have to become culturally urban.
I think a lot of the political tension that we see in the world right now is a specific tension between the cultures of being urban and being rural.
It's a problem then when wealth is disproportionately accrued to one of those groups that rural culture is always going to feel like the outsider, like they are you know not quite getting their dues as a result of the fact that urban culture seems to have a stranglehold on the world at the moment and this is a problem.
But furthermore networks create an issue.
That is when you work in close proximity to other powerful people that is you work literally physically proximate to them then that allows for you know power to be accrued to a small group of people inside of an area.
A good example of this is the fact that you know state governments are almost exclusively run by people that are from the larger population centers within those states because just that networking capacity is so much stronger when you're in when you're in that central circle that's in that tightly packed area rather than in some rural community that's very separated from the decision makers.
Our third independent point is that there's a shift away from rural industry that comes at the expense of you know really a lot of people.
So I think farming is a good example of this where a lot of people rely on this industry obviously because food is important and when you shift more people and more populations towards urban centers you increase the demand for farming because those people themselves are not farmers but you decrease the supply of farmers.
This is two problems.
One, puts a lot of strain on farmers because they now have to pull more weight.
But secondly it puts a lot of strain on people who aren't farmers because they have to pay more for this thing that is now harder to produce because there is less of a labor force going into the industry despite the increased demand.
This is a problem and I think given that the urbanization is drawing away from industries that historically were fine because the population disparity between urban and rural areas made more sense, we're now seeing more burden placed on these industries that is harmful to all.
Proud to propose.