We're proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should introduce a flat tax.
In terms of the model we'll be applying this to both income tax, corporate tax, you know sales tax.
Everything will have flat rates obviously the corporate tax can be different than the income tax and the sales tax but we want to be clear that no matter what the size of the corporation is or the income that an individual makes they will always be taxed at the same rate.
Three independent points.
First is that this system is fair.
We think it is principally wrong to tax people more money just because they make more money or at least a higher percentage.
We recognize obviously that there is a need to tax people based on their means to pay but we think that a flat tax meets that need because you are paying a percentage of your income.
So obviously you know a person that is a millionaire twenty percent of their income is going to be you know more money than twenty percent of a significantly poor person's income.
This is important because we want our tax system to be fair insofar as the point of taxation is to you know take money into the states so they can provide services back to the people.
We think that especially when people you know are are the individuals having their money taken from them we think that they should get comparable amounts of services delivered back to them and disproportionately richer individuals don't receive you know a proportionate amount of services back from the state.
So we think it's principally wrong then that they are forced to pay disproportionately large amount of money to the state.
When you have a flat tax, that system is inherently fairer and inherently more you know consistent with the ways in which we construe the fairness of the taxation system in general.
Our second independent point is capital flight, that when you put onerous burdens on wealthy individuals in a state you basically create an incentive for them to move elsewhere.
This is seen for example in the decreasing population in connecticut right now which is absolutely unprecedented.
Generally you don't see populations decrease in a state but because the onerous burden that's put on the state's wealthiest individuals, you see essentially a system that incentivizes the richest individuals to leave.
Again this is principally unfair.
This is showing a disproportionate burden placed on them but from a pragmatic perspective it's also bad for the state apparatus.
It means that essentially the cash cows that are running the state coffers or at least fueling the state coffers are leaving and that's a problem for insuring a balanced budget because if your median income in your state goes down drastically because of the high tax rates you suddenly don't have anyone to pay for the services that are necessary like welfare or food stamps or what have you.
So if you basically crowd out all of your cash cows there's nothing left to keep the gears running.
Our third independent point is that it's harder to commit fraud under a flat tax.
So the current system is just absolutely wrong with loopholes and exemptions and all these things that are disproportionately you know something that works for the wealthy essentially because they can hire you know analysts and tax experts that will help them exploit all of these loopholes.
This in effect means that the tax system doesn't actually work particularly well for poor individuals right now because in order to compensate for the amount the extent to which we're sure people are utilizing these loopholes you have to just raise the base tax rate which in turn means that poor people are actually just paying a decent amount anyway.
We think that if you just take out then the loopholes and if you get rid of these exemptions and instead replace it with just a broad flat tax you can ensure that wealthy people are actually doing their part because they don't have these large systems to just take advantage of the loopholes and the ways that they can get around paying their fair share.
This in turn means a simpler system which also has its own benefits in terms of just being easier to understand, confusing less people, and meaning that they get in less trouble with the IRS and things like that.
Proud to propose.