I'm proud to propose the motion that we should ban bitcoin.
We're willing to interpret this is just cryptocurrency in general, because it would probably be pretty dumb to have a system where only one form of cryptocurrency is illegal.
So for all intents and purposes we'll be defending generally the idea that we should ban any form of cryptocurrency.
Our first independent point is that cryptocurrency is inherently volatile.
This is because it's not backed by any sort of central government that is specifically issuing some sort of like guarantee against the currency.
I think there's two ways you can interpret this: one is sort of like the older model, like the sort of gold standard model, of just assuming that you have like have to have like a physical object to back up the like actual like worth of the currency.
This is probably less true now, but I guess a gold standard would be technically more stable.
But I think what's more important here is that cryptocurrency isn't backed up by any sort of institution that is willing to actually say like: " this is worth something ".
It is essentially a stock.
Like it's based on the idea that other people want the cryptocurrency, which means that things like consumer confidence and what not can make its value fluctuate very wildly.
We think this hasn't been an issue as of yet largely because cryptocurrencies haven't been used for a ton of stuff, particularly in the legal market, but we think in the long term if this is allowed to develop into a more commonly used form of currency, that volatility will probably have strong effects on the economy.
Our second independent point is the illicit use of cryptocurrency.
So right now the primary way in which this is used is to purchase things that normally would be illegal to purchase.
Because it is a cryptocurrency, that isn't like based on a physical object, and thus the possession of it can't be traced back to an individual person, it's used to pay for things like say drugs or like illegal forms of pornography or like any number of other like illegal things.
So we think that while there's probably some questionability about whether or not you should care about like drug purchases, like if someone's just like buying pot online, we think there is probably a broad range of things, from pot up to like assault weapons and other types of heavy arms they can be purchased using this type of currency.
So at the extreme end of the spectrum then there are definite like clear cut harms of it be easier to obtain things that should not be easy to obtain.
But beyond this, we think that there's just more of a principled harm in that it undermines the legitimacy of the government and its capacity to institute the rule of law.
We think that as a general rule of thumb, that when the government's ability to regulate things is undermined by new technology, the solution should never be like: " oh well I guess we should just give up on regulating it ".
Like, it is certainly reasonable to question whether or not a specific object should be illegal, but generally I think it makes more sense to say: " we should retain our control on the rule of law ", and instead then just like independently reconsider our laws.
Our third and final independent point is that we believe that this form of currency becomes increasingly problematic with the rise of artificial intelligence.
We think this is articulated in two ways: the first is that bitcoin mining, like the process by which you get bitcoins can be easily automated.
So this creates problematic like economic consequences in terms of how quickly this currency can be harvested by individuals with access to greater artificial intelligence technology.
So like large firms that develop this technology quickly, like I don't know maybe amazon or something or like whatever, will be able to mine cryptocurrency quickly and we think that this will lead to widening income inequity across the world.
Insofar as just like this greater technology will translate in a very direct sense into material wealth.
But secondly we think it's problematic insofar as it poses a significant risk of a-I competition with human beings.
That is to say that any foreseeable like future where there is some level of competition between humans and and highly sophisticated artificial intelligence can be greatly greatly worsened by the ability of artificial intelligence to circumvent government institutions and instead use non governmental forms of currency.
Given the high likelihood a problematic consequences with sort of artificial intelligence revolution, we think this is a contingency worth avoiding.
Proud to propose.