I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban private education.
We're particularly going to analyze this from the perspective of like primary and secondary education but principally we would also defend this at the collegiate level.
So a couple independent points.
First I want to start with the fact that this changes the political calculus for public underinvestment.
I think in the status quo there is significant underinvestment in the public school system largely as a product of the fact that those with the capital and the political sway to actually change that level of investment don't go to public schools or don't send their children to public schools.
You know the really really wealthy people in our society don't you know use the public school system because they go to these elite private schools instead.
The problem with that then is that you know the people who that they don't actually go to these public schools don't not only don't leverage their support in terms of expanding funding for the public schools but actually actively lobby against it, because it's their money going to these public schools and they don't want that to happen.
This underfunding that occurs in the status quo has pretty profound impacts.
It you know lowers the quality of education for poorer students which then creates cycles of poverty that are often difficult to escape.
If you are born into a poor family, you receive inadequate education due do this underfunding and then you yourself most likely have difficult finding a well paying job which then you know restarts the cycle when your children are born into poverty.
I think we can solve for this largely by creating a system that incentivizes those who have the means to do so to really work towards creating a public school systems that is extremely effective is a a good source of education and is truly a great equalizer.
So given that then I think you solve for a lot of the public underinvestment by simply creating an incentive structure that you know makes people want this to be a quality education system.
The second independent point I'd like to bring up though is that of contact theory, that when people are you know frequently coming into contact with people of different social backgrounds and are from you know different classes, this I think mitigates a lot of the stereotyping that creates the strong divisions in our society.
So another contributing factor in why social programs and social spending is so low is stereotypes among the wealthy who really have the political power and the means to expand these social programs stereotypes that paint poor people as you know as undeserving as in the you know is in the tradition of the of the welfare as established in the reagan years something that really harm is of course like not a a valid stereotype, is not something that is a good representation of who people that are struggling to make ends meet actually operate.
But nonetheless this stereotype persists largely through the product of of of a lack of contact between wealthy and poor people in this country and that's obviously a problem in terms of ensuring that we can provide social programs that help those in need because of the political power in the or at least a political interest isn't there.
There isn't a mechanism by which to ensure that funding for it and desire for its funding will actually persist.
But if you have educational programs that you know put you know wealthy families in in the same classroom as poorer families and poorer children, then you have a system that is that that establishes some sort of connection between these classes, where people see that humanizing element where they you know have direct encounters with people that live on the other side of the tracks and that in turn means that there's a lot more will to you know fund these programs that help these people and yeah that goes a long way.
Proud to propose.