I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should fight urbanization.
Two independent points, the first of which is that, broadly, this form of density and population growth in density in urban areas is actually pretty good there's specifically for the poor individuals that government is very concerned with.
We think this plays out proudly in two ways.
The first is economies of scale.
Things like housing, things like public services, things like schools, they're cheaper to build per person when you have lots of people in a small area.
A school, for example, that houses, you know, a couple thousand people as opposed to a couple hundred people is cheaper on a per person basis, because there's shared facilities, you know, there's share transportation methods, that sort of thing.
So we think that all these types of services and these goods, and housing as well when you can build it en masse, and like highrises is always going to be cheaper on a per person basis when you can do it in large numbers at the same time.
That in turn means that the poorer people in these developing countries get more for less essentially, that if they're going to be, you know, impoverished on either side of the house, that they're essentially going to have a higher quality of life living in an urban area where these services are better.
I want to get at a specific contention that's made by government here that there are like these political incentives that exacerbate when people leave rural areas.
I think the reasons why rural areas are underserved in the status quo are are like actually inherent to the nature of rural life itself, that is, that usually political actors come from urban centers and have large support bases in urban centers that form the majority, no matter what the specific ratio is.
So even if the ratio of like urban population to rural population is like ninety to ten instead of like seventy to thirty, we still think that, broadly speaking, governments are going to act in the interests of cities.
So we think then that these people will be better served if they live in cities, and it's just better to put more people in the areas that will be comparatively better served.
But secondly under this, we think that centralization of services is always better, that even if slums are poorly maintained and don't have access to good services, it is comparatively better than in rural areas.
So if your fire station, the nearest one, is like a couple miles away when you live in the slums, that is better than like literally hundreds of miles away if you live out in like what gov refers to as the tribal regions in india.
That's a problem then that we think that, on the comparative, even if the slums certainly don't have good living conditions, it is better than in these rural regions.
Our second independent point though is that the policies that gov theoretically defends penalize individuals.
So we think it's telling the government never really pins down a specific policy about how they're going to fight urbanization.
They just say they're going to like basically support policies that do this.
But I think the problem is that the only way to stop getting people to come into the city is to specifically either penalize them for doing it or reward them for staying in rural regions.
I don't think governments are going to take the second group because a lot of these developing countries are cash-strapped and don't have the capacity to actively reward people for specific forms of activity.
So I think instead, governments will penalize people.
There's two problems with this though and two specific ways in which people are harmed in it.
The first is the freedom of movement.
We think that people just do you have a proactive right to live where they choose as long as they can afford it, and, like, if people want to live in cities, they should be allowed to live in cities, principally speaking.
But secondly, we think that it penalizes people in a financial way, that is, people won't stop moving to cities, because they still think that there's going to be a better economic opportunity there.
So even if like modi wants to fine people for like moving into like packed urban areas, they're still going to do it.
So all the policy results in is just putting this disproportionate burden on individuals and slapping them with fines and further harming people who are already suffering to a great degree.
Proud to oppose.