I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should end progressive taxation.
So, the model for this is going to be a flat tax.
That is to say that there will be no tax brackets, so none of the like, you make a lot of money, you get taxed at thirty five percent, and you make a small amount of money, you don't get taxed at all.
We would just say that everybody gets taxed at whatever the average of the current tax rate is.
So we would try to make this revenue neutral, at least in the status quo.
I will provide arguments for why in the long term it will actually be revenue positive, but we will basically say whatever the average person is taxed right now, tax everybody at that level.
So probably something in the middle like like fifteen to twenty percent.
So, two arguments under this.
First, that it will simplify the tax code in a way that improves collection efforts.
And secondly, that the status quo penalizes wealth in a way that is both unfair and economically harmful to the country.
First on the simplicity arguments.
I think it's important to note that with a flat tax, there won't be loopholes.
Things like tax shelters are going to be less proliferated, be under the realization that there is no incentive to change the definition of what bracket you're in.
So, in the status quo, somebody who's just over the line for going into the next tax bracket up, has an incentive to hide a little bit of their wealth to wind up in the next bracket below.
We think that that therefore is going to go down when you have a flat tax, because there's no incentive to just throw lots of your money into this illegal thing.
Now, I think it's worth noting that obviously opp is going to say oh, but people just have an incentive to hide wealth because that wealth won't be taxed if it's hidden.
I think people make a risk calculus that when they hide wealth.
Because generally speaking, this is an illegal thing, and you can get in a lot of trouble with the IRS, so there has to be a large payoff in order to do this.
By eliminating the bracket system, and eliminating the ability of people to easily jump brackets by hiding comparatively smaller amounts of their wealth, we minimize the reward that is intrinsic to the risk reward calculus.
So I think we decrease pretty significantly the amount of tax evasion that occurs on our side of the house.
But secondly, we would say that there's income smoothing in the simpler system, and that benefits particularly poor people.
So in the status quo, generally poor people just pay the regular amount of taxes that would be expected of them, through like money that's taken out of their check and things like that, and then they just get a big refund around like april or may.
The problem with that is that it's not smooth income, it's very like erratic, and you get your incompetent inconsistent rate.
That has a harm in terms of budgeting, because it makes it unreliable for people to like it gives people an like an uneven source of income, that is difficult to smooth out into things that are generally recurring payments that take up the majority of poor individuals paychecks, like rent and food and utilities and things like that.
But secondarily, that refund scheme actually incentivizes economically poor decision making, like splurging your refund and just having a smaller budget for the rest of the year.
My second independent argument is that the status quo penalizes wealth.
First, through cash flight, we would say that, you know basically these high tax brackets that exist in the status quo result in like an exodus of wealthy people from the country.
This means that there is less tax revenue to help the less well-off people at the bottom of the tax bracket, but also that there's less employment because generally these people are like entrepreneurs, business owners, things like that and they take those jobs with them.
But secondly, we would say that penalizing wealth in this way is just unfair.
Like I think it's pretty intuitive to say that like oh, if I like make a lot of money, that's not something I should suffer for, that's not something I should be penalized for.
So I think it's just fair to say then, that like everyone should pay the same amount of taxes, insofar as everyone has the same desert claim to the infrastructure of the state.
Like I don't think being rich makes you undeserving in any particular way.
So for all of these reasons, I'm proud to stand in proposition.