I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should fight for tibetan independence.
Our first independent point is specifically relating to what would happen if the US government actually acted upon the pressure that's being proposed by side government, and specifically we think that there is a range of diplomatic and other internationally articulated harms that are intrinsic to this particular course of action.
We think that tibetan independence particularly is poses an existential threat to china.
A significant portion of its capacity to become an international player and become an economic and military powerhouse has been based upon not only its sheer size, but also upon its insistence that there is only one ethnicity, han chinese, that is within china and that basically anyone that claims to be anything other than han chinese is lying.
This basic idea has driven the chinese government forward more or less since the communist revolution, and we think that this is particularly problematic, then, when we talk about specifically separatist movers from china.
China has demonstrated repeatedly in the past that this isn't something that will be tolerated and that any sort of any sort of hint at any sort of separatism will be cracked down on extensively.
This is even in regards to pressure from foreign governments, with taiwan, for example, and the significant steps that they have taken towards essentially pretending that they don't exist are completely illegitimate and shouldn't even be recognized as a state.
Given this, then, we think there're significant ways in which china would lash out at the united states or any other actor if they were to take a meaningful stance toward standing up for tibetan independence.
One way this could be articulated is a military stance.
China has recently been building up a large navy in particular in the south china sea, and we think that territorial threats to china could be requisitely met with a large increase in their militarization in their capacity to enforce their claims on other territories.
We think that there is an economic articulation to this, that something like this could particularly spark a trade war that could actually really spark wide-scale suffering around the world if china's goods stop becoming cost-effective.
Third, we think that there can be severed regional help.
China is a particularly important partner in dealing with north korea, and we think the deterioration of that relationship could also have significant harms on the stability of eastern asia in general.
So, we really then don't think that on a pragmatic basis that this is a reasonable tradeoff.
While we recognize that there are significant human rights abuses in tibet, we think that the specific method articulated by side government is too blunt and too heavy-handed, and the backlash that will ensue from the chinese government will simply be too great and incur too much suffering to make this a reasonable tradeoff.
Our second independent point, though, gets more at the political aspects of what government discussed.
Specifically, government tells you that there is a need for activism groups to have ideological consistency within their platforms and that they'll be called hypocrites if they fight for one cause that makes sense under a certain paradigm but not another.
Specifically they used the example of fighting for palestine but not tibet.
We think that this is a poor representation though of how governments respond to pressure.
We don't think that the united states government cares particularly about , you know, actual pressure and actual ideological consistency.
Boycotts against south africa, for example, were successful despite the fact that there weren't similar boycotts against similarly oppressive regimes.
And the reason for this is that governments generally just respond to tangible pressure.
That is, is this group capable of inflicting harm upon our specific interests and incentives and if so, we'll cave to their demands.
Given that, then, we think that because there're such obvious ways in which the US government will never go along with the fight for tibetan independence, activism is zero-sum.
You can always fight for something else that's much more feasible.
So we think that the other fights brought up by side government, like palestine, for example, are much more within reach than something like, say, tibet, because of the more pragmatic nature in which these policies could be implemented.
Proud to oppose.