I'm proud to support the motion that we should abolish capital punishment.
Our first independent point is that even prisoners have a right to life, and that if there is no countervailing justification for doing so, we should never enact a punishment.
So we think that the purpose of the criminal justice system is twofold: the first is to, in some capacity, rehabilitate individuals in a way that can allow them to function in society again.
This is because every human being, regardless of what they have done, has rights.
And we think that if we can get a person to a point where they can reassimilated into society, that is a good thing to do.
But secondly we think the criminal justice system's purpose is to protect the rights of the innocent.
So things like neutralization, IE putting someone in prison to ensure that they're not going to commit a crime again is an important component of the criminal justice system.
We don't think either of these purposes though are served by capital punishment.
All capital because the comparative is just like life in prison, the only comparative of capital punishment seems to be inflicting more harm on the person who has committed a crime just for the sake of doing so.
IE retribution in situations where you think the crime is so severe that you need like more retribution.
We don't think, however, that there is a moral justification for engaging in retributive justice, because we think that broadly speaking, the rights of the innocent don't extend to like needlessly inflicting harm upon the person who committed the crime.
We don't think that like an eye for an eye actually makes the world any better.
At that point then, because the like actual execution of this individual doesn't serve any sort of broader purpose we don't think it is justified.
Rather we think it is a needless infringement on the rights of the individual being executed.
Our second independent point is wrongful imprisonment.
So we think that obviously this happens.
Like you hear about like these stories at the news where it's like: " oh, x person was like exonerated from their crime thirty years later due to DNA evidence. "
Like this sort of thing happens with like fairly high regularity.
We think also it is clear that this frequently happens with people that are on death row, due to the extreme nature of their crimes.
There is often like a lot of confusion in courtrooms, especially with like racism as a factor in the criminal justice system, these are very often going to be like charged trials, and as a result, wrongful indictments and wrongful imprisonments are you know something that can frequently happen.
Of course like if someone has just been like in life in prison, you can just take them out of prison and allow them to go back into society.
If you killed that person that's not really an option that's on the table.
At that point then we think it's important to just put people in prison for life rather than kill them, even if like the chance a small that they are exonerated by evidence, we think that is a massive massive injustice if somebody is innocent and is killed as a result of it.
IE you cannot reverse the decision.
Our third and final independent point concerns money.
So essentially we think that putting people on death row and engaging in capital punishment is incredibly costly.
The reason for this is that there's a lot of backlog in death row due to like the sorts of chemicals and things that are used.
We also think there's something to be said for like the humane the like the humanity aspect of whether or not these chemicals are like a actual peaceful way to die, but regardless of that we think they're very expensive.
The sort of regulations that are put on death row make it such that you have to put a lot of money into buying these chemicals, that you have to spend a lot of money keeping these people on death row because there's different security regulations and different like treatment regulations for people who are about to die, and in effect, because they spend so much time on death row they actually wind up being costlier than if you would just sentence them to life in prison.
Counter intuitively killing people and taking them out of the prison system actually costs a lot more money than just letting them stay in the present system indefinitely.
At that point then we think this is a system that is really harmful to the taxpayer, and at that point we don't think that it is a reasonable thing to keep in place because that is a specific articulable harm that is inflicted upon innocents just for the sake of being able to say that you killed the bad guys.
Proud to oppose.
Propose.