I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should increase international volunteering.
Our first independent point is that this form of volunteering reinforces negative stereotypes about the developing world.
A lot of what government tells you revolves around, especially in the later portion of the speech, the notion that you can sort of have a broader world view by engaging in this sort of volunteering.
I think there are two problems with this.
The first being that in the vein of reinforcing negative stereotypes you see that a lot of when someone goes into you say ghana, for example, to you know work whatever you're doing you see this perception of the country as you know sort of downtrodden and underdeveloped and just an absolute hell hole because that is specifically the region you're operating in.
And I think that's what a lot of people's like working perception of the developing world is right now.
Is rather than looking towards you know the you know bustling you know cities that are developing in a lot of africa and looking at the the positive economic developments that are occurring there, these forms of international volunteering tend to focus on the negatives.
And I think this is fundamentally an issue then, one, because it does reinforce the existing stereotypes, but two, because I think as government put opposition of what government puts forward, you're not really reshaping any existing perspectives.
This is really fundamentally a problem.
But I think the second issue with what government tells you is that realistically these are only very wealthy individuals going anyway.
This sort of international volunteering is usually long term so you're looking at individuals that first have the ability to actually work without income for prolonged periods of time, but also have to be able to afford the airfare.
That then means that you're really only looking at a small subset of the population whose perspectives would actually be changed by this type of volunteering.
These are generally individuals then who, a, would probably be capable of going abroad anyway, but b, aren't really the sort of like xenophobic individuals that are thought of in their advocacy you know when they bring up all the stuff about the iraq war.
These usually aren't the individuals that are like so ready to go to war, these are often like college educated people they lean liberal, they're generally more isolationist, I don't think that this is really the sort of demographic they're shooting for when they want to access this impact.
Our second independent point is that there is a mis-matching of skills inherent in this type of volunteering.
A significant amount of what gov hangs their hat on is the notion that you can do more good in countries that are you know less developed and basically more resource poor.
I think the problem though is that when gov cherry picks this example of like, oh we'll send like a system engineer for their water system over in like he'll work on that, that's not really what international volunteering looks like.
While there are certainly NGOs sending you know water engineers over there, that's not the question that comes up when you're talking about increasing international volunteering.
An increase from the status quo probably represents a larger number of like high school students and things like that.
This sort of voluntourism.
And the problem is that they don't actually know how to deal with the big picture problems that are plaguing these countries.
Community service in downtown detroit is something that is within a high schooler's scope.
Things like picking up trash or like doing community outreach.
Things like developing infrastructure which is what a lot of these countries need right now, isn't within that scope and we think that this is a problem, a, because you're not meeting the needs of that country because you can't you know put down the basic building blocks before you can get to the smaller stuff.
But also it puts more dead weight on NGOs that have to provide for more individuals and have to use more of their resources you know feeding and housing these high schoolers and college kids and as a result you actually mitigate the efficacy of the NGOs that are doing the most work in these countries right now.
Proud to oppose.