I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban private universities.
Our first independent point is that the public sector is uniquely bad at managing education.
So, I think you can broadly apply this sort of standard argument about bureaucracy here, that sort of the state is often not equipped with the best actors running it for a number of reasons, including you know poor to the institution, poor pay to the actors running the institution, that sort of thing.
And the red tape that often winds up entangling a lot of good ideas is of course a problem, especially in education where innovation is frequently needed.
But we think that there's something more fundamental to education specifically, and that is that funding for universities is often entangled in political debates.
You can see this in states across the united states, where you know funding has been slashed over the last few decades for public universities, largely is the result of a burgeoning conservative movement that seeks to reduce state debt, and we think that this is inherently then a problematic actor to run these universities.
I think there is both a conservative take and a liberal take on this.
The conservative take being that the the state has no role in running these types of universities, and therefore should not be paying these amounts of money to run them.
But even the liberal take insists that insofar as there will be electoral cycles where conservatives run the budget, it is really problematic to put an individual's fundamental right to education in the hands of a political cycle.
Given that, we think that this a poor place to put the money or our input ownership of the universities that everybody has to go to.
Our second independent point is that there are specific reasons to choose to go to individual private universities that state should not be in control of.
So specifically gov's model is to subsume ownership of all existing universities.
This presumably includes religious universities, and I think this puts gov in a bit of a double blind.
Assuming that they don't just get rid of the religious universities, that in itself is obviously problematic, because their religious needs to go to individual types of universities, yeshiva university, for example, is a good yeshivas in general, rather, are a good example of when there is a religious justification for needing a particular type of education.
But I think perhaps even more problematically is if gov's model assumes that the state just now runs religious universities.
This is inherently problematic because it represents a breakdown of the separation of church and state, that inherently violates the state's vested necessity to remain impartial in endorsing any particular religion.
We think that at the state then subsumes control of a religious institution, this is inherently problematic.
Our third independent point is that crowding lots of individuals into the public sector universities will inherently decrease the quality of public sector universities.
What's important to note here is that private sector schools largely get their quality and their prestige from the higher sticker price.
That you know when a school gets sixty thousand dollars a head, it can just afford to you know basically pay its teachers better, put more money into research projects, that sort of thing.
Public universities, however, run on a tighter purse basically, because they just don't have as much money.
And we don't think that that changes then when you look at putting a lot of richer students into it.
Financial aid can engage in some degree of a change in the distribution of who pays what into the university, but we don't think that it can fully solve.
Given that then, we think that the large number of students who are now placing into the system creates a resource strain that inherently comes at the disdain of poorer students who are less capable of fighting for access to resources, simply because you know they have less political sway through like things like you know their parents being political actors or whatever, and less financial sway through capacity to donate to the university and stuff like that.
Proud to oppose.