I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should reform the teacher tenure system.
For the sake of this debate I'll be modeling it as the reform just being abolished, the teacher tenure system so we just wouldn't have tenure anymore.
We're not going to change anything else.
So three independent points.
First is that the restrictions that are generated by tenure keep bad teachers in place.
So I think the reasoning for why this happens is fairly intuitive, that is that you know generally the incentive of an individual school is to fire teachers that are underperforming and you know replace them with teachers that you know might be better basically.
I think the problem then that's generated by tenure is that teachers you know that are doing well over you know the first period of their teaching career don't necessarily stay that way.
I think you know there's lots of examples that people can just personally relate to seeing in their own school system but also like from a logical perspective it just makes sense like sometimes people just get worse at their jobs as they age especially when that job is like a very high stress one that involves dealing with like loud rambunctious often disobedient children so you know as people reach into their twilight years they just might not be as good at the job and I think at that point it is reasonable to replace them with someone that is better.
I think then like so maybe like op is going to get up here and be like that so inhuman like you can't just like take someone's job away from them when they're in their fifties.
I think I'm willing though to put like a different standard on schools because the impact of like the quality of the teaching is pretty high like having a good teacher verses like an unadequate teacher means a massive amount of the development of it in of tons and tons of children that pass through that teacher's classroom.
So at the point where there is a profound impact on young children as a result of these hiring policies, I'm willing to take the stance that we should adopt whatever the policy is that ensures the best quality teaching.
Our second independent point is that the tenure system is extremely costly.
So the way this works in a lot of cities for example is that if the teacher doesn't get hired in a given year that is if the school decides we don't want them anymore we're just like not going to hire them they can do that.
It it's a complicated process that involves expending a lot of political capital with the union but they can do that.
However what happens is that the teacher doesn't just like go away like they still get paid and if they can't find another school to work out then they just basically sit in these things called like teacher detention rooms new york is notorious for having like large ones that lots of teachers wind up in and they get paid to do essentially nothing.
So this is obviously pretty problematic like this is a huge drain on the school budget that in most cities is pretty underfunded and even if it's not underfunded there's always better things to spend that money on than paying teachers to sit around in a room.
Like you could buy new classroom supplies, you could buy new technology to run these classrooms on, new gym equipment, any number of things.
You could bring down the classroom size by just hiring better teachers.
Any number of things that you could do with this money but instead it's going to what is a pretty objectively bad use of it.
Our third independent point is that it affords a lot of political cow capital to unions that then proceed to often abuse that political capital.
So the reason why this accrues so much political capital to the union is that they are responsible for they're essentially the gatekeepers to the tenure system.
So this puts the teachers pretty much in their pocket.
A large part of the staff at these schools are then you know affording their loyalty to the union by virtue of the fact that they are the ones ensuring a strong protection is kept inplace.
This is a problem though because the unions' incentives generally don't align with the incentives of children and things like that.
They align with teachers' incentives.
Often these overlap but often they don't.
Often teachers want extremely high pay and like generous pack like like generous employment benefits packages that just don't allign with the best interests of the students because there's better ways to spend that money.
And when the tenure system allows so much loyalty to the union, the union then has better leverage within the district and that then increases their capacity to engage in abusive tactics.
Proud to propose.