I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should end progressive taxation.
I want to start this with a quick overview on the lack of a model because I think it's important to understand the comparatives of this debate.
This round is not about whether or not there are flaws with the progressive taxation model.
There are flaws with any model.
The question is whether or not one model is preferable to the other.
It seems then from the trajectory of the type of argumentation put forward by site that their preference is something approaching a flat tax essentially, that rather than having these individual buckets that gradiate upwards they would just have a flat tax that everybody pays the same percentage.
So for the purpose of the speech I'll assume that's what their advocacy is.
Our first independent point is that progressive taxation is the only way to ensure that people essentially pay their fair share.
What we tell you is that the marginal value of a dollar is significantly higher for poorer individuals.
This is true for a couple reasons.
First is that poor people are less capable of making essentially what are investments into their future.
So one example of this is buying shoes.
A poorer person would have to essentially by worse shoes because they don't have the ability to buy nice shoes up front and because these bad shoes wear down quickly, they constantly have to replace it.
This in the long term totals to more money being spent but because you don't have that upfront capital to just buy the nice thing from the get-go and save the money in the long term, you actually wind up having to spend more of your money on each individual thing.
Another good example of this is renting a home as opposed to having the upfront capital to just buy a home.
So, another way though in which poorer people are disproportionately harmed you know and essentially have to spend more of their money is the fact that they don't have discretionary income, and as a result can't make sound investments like say stock investments or retirement funds that richer individuals might be able to.
All of this means that progressive taxation is necessary because beyond just the individual dollar amount, richer people are capable of paying a larger percentage of their income.
Gov tries to preemptively wave this away by telling you that the state isn't in a position to make a decision on whether or not an individual person's you know money is worth more to them and that this is just something you should leave up to the individual.
Now on the point of whether or not you leave it up to the individual, I don't think it's reasonable to say that individual people should set their own tax rates.
I don't think that's ever advocated for by gov, I think justly so because that's an absurd advocacy.
So again the the other interpretation of this essentially becomes that you should rather, as the government, just assume that the the appropriate rate is a flat tax.
This is the implicit problem with this spike is that no matter what the government is making some assumptions about, what people can afford to pay.
So at that point you know a progressive taxation system while it might have flaws at least attempts to approximate reality.
And even if approximating reality isn't actually possible you can do a comparatively better job with some systems than with other systems.
Our second independent point briefly is that redistribution is a just method.
So specifically when government tells you that like people benefit equally from public services, that's not the basis for taxation.
The basis that we see for taxation is particularly allowing taking from rich people, that is people that were often born into wealth and as such didn't actually like earn their capital through any sort of deserve claim, and distributing it to those that suffer through cyclical poverty.
Often when people are born into poverty, they remain in poverty because of things like bad schooling, bad access to healthcare, that sort of thing.
So we think that redistribution of wealth then is necessary in order to ensure a fair economic system and is directly facilitated by progressive taxation by insuring that essentially we take money from the rich to higher tax rates and give it to the poor by providing things like social services.
Proud to oppose.