I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban single-sex schools.
Three independent points under this: first, confidence gaps that are erased when you allow women to operate within safe spaces, second, that you can get the real world and access to it outside of school structures, and thirdly, school choice as just a normative good.
On the first argument regarding confidence gaps, I think it's important, and gov makes this argument that: oh, well, you know, if you force people to interact with one another, you get this sort of socialization theory that people actually have to like engage with one another on a day-to-day basis, and men are less likely to discriminate against women when they see them in productive like states and when they actually see that there are like intelligent women around them on a day-to-day basis.
I just don't buy this is true.
First, because discriminatory structures are designed to put down people that would normally be high-performing, right?
Like public schools like structurally create ways for in which men can put down women and like place them in ways that make them seem subordinate.
That's important because then it means that the socialization that these boys are actually receiving is the vision of women being put down in this sense.
But secondly, I think it's important to recognize that like on the actual notion of whether or not the women themselves, the girls that are going to these schools, are comfortable, that is a harm in and of itself: that they are forced to be made uncomfortable, that they are forced to engage with these sexist norms when they go to mixed-gender schools, and I think it is good to give girls the option to to operate within settings that are less discriminatory, that are more likely to allow women to express themselves freely and not be worried about patriarchal structures holding them down.
My second independent point is that you get the real world like outside of school, that it is this thing that you see in other contexts, right?
Because you don't stop learning when you leave school, right?
Like you learn about the real world when you go home, when you walk around your neighborhood, when you play with other kids.
I think people have or children have the capacity to engage with a of like children of the other gender on a regular basis outside of school settings.
I don't think you lose this capacity to engage with like other genders just by going to a single-sex school.
But secondarily, even if that was true, I just don't buy that this is this critically important thing that you have to have on a day-to-day basis in order to grow up to be a real person, right?
Like I think you can just like because there is so little interaction honestly between genders in primary schools and things like that in the first place, I just don't buy that this is a particularly unique argument, right?
Like children self-segregate along gender lines to such an incredible extent within schools that it probably doesn't even make that big of a difference to actually have a like combined school based on gender.
Third independent argument is school choice.
So I think this breaks down in two ways.
First is just sort of the stock intuitive way that autonomy is good when we allow parents to make decisions for schools based on their based on their children's individual need.
That is a good thing because sometimes you could just have kids that need to be in an all-one-gender school, right?
For like whatever individual reason that that parent might be able to believe there.
So when you increase that autonomy, that's a good thing.
But secondly, I think it's worth recognizing that the people that are affected by this policy, that are no longer able to go to that single-sex school, are disproportionately likely to be people that grew up in sexist households, they grew up around very problematic norms and that affects kids, like insofar as these are the children being pushed into mixed-gender schools now.
I think that is just more likely to increase the number of like hostile interactions, of sexist interactions, because these are children that have already probably been normalized to this.
Recognize that when that children being exposed to sexist norms, particularly young girls, is particularly problematic in like elementary, middle and high school, right?
Because these are the ages at which these children are least engaged and like least prepared to engage with these forms of oppression.
College, for example, if you are thrust into these sexist norms at that age, you are much better equipped to deal with this because you are older, because you have probably experienced some marginal amount of oppression in the past, right?
Like we think this is the preferable age to engage with these systemic harms, because you're just better equipped to deal with suffering at that age.
When it happens to you at younger age, that means more psychological harm and so forth.
For these reasons, proud to stand in opposition.