I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban boarding schools.
My first independent point cuts to what I think is really the heart of the issue with government's case, and that is that boarding schools are a legitimate choice for people that make based on the needs of their individual child and as such we should allow people to make that choice.
Government seems to contend that if there are problems with boarding schools, just like in a general abstract sense, we should institute a ban.
I don't think this is true though.
I think that there are if there are some people it works for and if there are some people it doesn't work for, that is a legitimate choice a parent can make.
The reason that we're comfortable with parents making this decision for their child is that the parent, and not the government, is the individual with the most information about what is best for the child.
So some like government bureaucrat in washington instituting a ban is essentially deciding that boarding school works for nobody.
We don't think that that's going to be as accurate a reflection of individual children's needs as telling parents: " look, if you think a boarding school is what your kid needs then you have the right to send them to a boarding school. "
That sort of thing then ensures that we have a society that has its needs met most accurately and ensures that we have a society that functions best by insuring you know the most general happiness possible.
Our second independent point though the quality of boarding schools and particularly why we think this is such a good thing for some people.
So, first off government talks to you about the isolation that's intrinsic to boarding schools.
That they're often not interacting with people in society at large.
We think for some children this is a good thing.
You know like military schools and that sort of thing are often explicitly designed on the notion that some children how like behavioral issues or have some sort of like social issue that needs reforming.
And often, to an extent, keeping that child in isolation from the world at large, where there are lots of like variables, moving pieces, things that can trigger like an angry episode or something like that, that can often interfere with your ability to properly educate the child.
So that degree of isolation actually works quite well for some children.
Likewise, the sort of like like daily repetition that government is so worried about.
That's something that's also very good for some children.
Like, that level of structure, that level of like predictability in a day to day basis, can really be helpful towards ensuring that the individual child can focus on their studies.
So given this then, we think that there are intrinsic qualities to boarding schools that make them beneficial for certain children.
But we also think that from a broader perspective, the storied history of boarding schools and often the institutional rigor that is associated with them, means that they are just very high quality schools that attract high quality professors and things like that.
Given all of this then we think that it's important to ensure that these good schools can continue to exist.
Our third and final independent point is resource competition.
So we think in a world where you say like: " look, rich kids, you can't just like sit around at your boarding schools anymore.
You have to go to the public school system " sounds appealing on a base level.
That you, you know, basically that integration ensures like you know less stratification in terms of like what rich kids get versus what poorer kids get, but I think the reality of it is that you just wind up with resource competition.
That is, that you flood more people into the public school system without increasing the resources of the public school system.
This is because the public schools get their money from property taxes that are paid whether or not you have a kid in that school.
So on like a unlike a private school, where the amount of money they have is based on the tuition paid by the individual students, the public school has a pretty much flat source of revenue.
We think then that rich kids are just simply going to put more pressure on the system for its already strained resources by a, just having like more bodies in the classroom, but also b, by having parents that have like more resources, free time, money to donate, that sort of thing, and engaging in policies that distribute more of those already limited resources towards their children rather than the ones who actually need those public resources.
Proud to oppose.