I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should fight global warming.
Our first independent point is that we think that a lot of the science backing up the specific claims made by side government is faulty at best.
So government gives you sort of like this laundry list of doomsday scenarios where the world is coming to an end, there's going to be these horrible impacts generated by climate change, we need to fight this thing.
I think the problem is that a lot of the data and specifically the, you know, the research studies and what not that have been conducted based on climate change were largely funded by political actors and institutional actors that had an incentive for this sort of doom and gloom scenario.
What I mean by this, from the political perspective, is that because a lot of this research came forward in times of , you know, like democratic action or democrats being in power rather, there was a specific political incentive to ensure you know, that this sort of policy was being or this sort of scenario was being detailed as the inevitable future based on current consumption of fossil fuels.
That political incentive of course stems from the proliferation of the political agenda to develop green technology for environmental reasons, and while we think that that individually has merit, that has to be weighed against things like economic concerns.
Broadly, then, we think that the impacts detailed by side government are grossly exaggerated, and even if there is a probability that these types of things occur, that has to be weighted against the economic ramifications of their policies.
This brings me to my second point that there are specific economic issues with , you know, actually pursuing the types of things that would be necessary to act upon side government's, you know, policy.
What they're talking about is a full reversal away from fossil fuels and other types of sort of like high emitting energy sources.
The problem with this is that of course these , you know, these dirtier fuels are significantly cheaper, and when you switch over to things like solar and wind as the prime drive of your energy infrastructure, you increase energy costs for a large number of people.
That in and of itself is a problem because it has a disproportionate impact on the poor, who can't divest from the larger energy infrastructure, and as such are largely saddled then with the increased costs.
But secondly, we think that it's a problem because it hurts the global economic engine.
Things like transporting goods, for example, are based on fuel prices being fairly low.
Just moving things around a country and even just moving oneself in a car, even by public transportation, this all relies on cheap energy.
So if we force ourselves into a global economy where green energy becomes our system in our infrastructure, we think that that incurs significant social and economic costs.
Our last independent point is that even if you buy sort of the gov narrative about doom and gloom, we don't think that the actions that they would take would even have a very significant impact on what's going to happen.
So, specifically, they're of the opinion that like divesting from these fuels will just like stop global warming in its track.
But the argument that they never explicitly articulate is predicated on the notion that for, you know, essentially a hundred years, we've been spewing huge amounts of coal fumes and gas fumes and that sort of thing into the air, and that's been driving global warming.
But there's a delay on the effect, that is, that like when pollutants get into the air, they don't actually have their like effect on the environment for a couple years.
That in essence means that even if we were to stop now, global warming would continue.
So, if we seem to be at a point of inevitability, that is, that we are inevitably going to destroy the environment, it doesn't seem like the benefits that they talk about ever actually get articulated, rather we just suffer the economic harms while also continuing to deal with the environmental ones.
Proud to oppose.