I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should increase international volunteering.
We'll do this through you know just I think expanding the existing programs that generally facilitate this.
Usually this is something that's facilitated either through nonprofits or travel agencies that specifically like voluntourism so we would defend a world basically where in the role of those organizations is expanded to a larger number of people and the you know number of number of individuals participating in international volunteering expands.
So our first independent point is that international volunteering is useful for covering gaps in services in the third-world particularly.
What this means is that you know when you're looking at for example some of the volunteers with distribution of malaria nets in central africa for example or in sub-saharan africa what you're doing is fulfilling a service that because of the lack of economic development and the lack of a like robust nonprofit structure in that country, there is just an inability to fulfill certain functions that need to be fulfilled.
I think then it's important to recognize the value that international volunteering has in you know filling those gaps essentially.
These are often fairly simple tasks things like walking around it literally handing out nets but they're important tasks because even if it's simple labor the the individuals capable of volunteering just don't exist within that country.
There aren't people that are you know independently wealthy enough to spend their time volunteering rather than you know working to make a living to you know feed their families.
At that point then there is you know unique benefits provided by taking people from the developed world who do have the means to volunteer time in exchange for littleto no money versus you know having to find the the few individuals within that country's borders that are capable of volunteering that time.
Even if op is going to tell you that usually these like volunteers are under-qualified for the work.
I want to stress particularly that this is not like we're not putting volunteers in like leadership positions.
You're not going to be like running the data analytics branch of a nonprofit.
These are usually very simple tasks that just the the the the the labor force just doesn't exist to fulfill this within the country and you need to bring this in from externaly if you're going to get the job done.
Our second independent point is that this helps individuals develop a global perspective.
So I think often when you look at international volunteering, one of two things is the alternative.
Either one you know you're just looking at sort of like rich kids in the developed world who want to see another country.
So if they're not going to do international volunteering which like might just be like a feel-good thing then the alternative is this is that they like go to like touristy spots in that country instead.
I think this alternative is bad because you get like a it it it even absent the benefits that are accrued to the country by actually volunteering your time and doing something of social utility I think there's also a problem in that you are getting a distorted picture of the country.
Often the reason that we consider international travel to be beneficial is that you get a picture of what the world looks like outside of your home and I don't think you're getting a very good picture if you only visit like the general tourist traps in that country.
I think if you visit the locations that need some level of volunteering like if you go to impoverished areas and assist with distribution of medicine and things like that, then you actually get a more holistic picture of what's going on in other parts of the world.
But secondarily I think the other alternate that's often examined is just you know whether or not they would volunteer in their own country.
Again then I think that the important distinction here is the differential in suffering, that is that you know volunteering somewhere in america you're just going to do less good than if you volunteered in say ghana because there's just more suffering in ghana, there's more issues to be addressed and your social impact will always be greater there.
Proud to propose.