I'm proud to support the motion that we should further exploit sustainable energy.
Three independent points, the first of which is that this mitigates the effects of global warming.
So a significant amount of global warming stems from our usage of fossil fuels.
Things like say carbon dioxide go up into the atmosphere, greenhouse effect, planet warms up.
You know, etcetera etcetera.
At the point then where fossil fuels and things like you know crude oil, coal, what not are tied to the the warming of the environment and the environmental effects that are associated with that, say rising sea levels, weather patterns, that sort of thing, we think that it is necessary to mitigate those effects on the basis that it provides a significant harm to people in the world if not an absolute existential threat.
Sustainable energy is of course linked to this on the basis that the things that are creating such significant pollution are by nature finite resources.
So when we're talking about sustainable energy, we're talking about things that aren't finite in nature, like you know your coal your oil, so on, we're talking about things that are more or less infinite, like say sun light or say you know water flow.
At that point then we think that the mitigation of global warming is probably the most significant impact in this debate, because of the extreme nature of the harms it creates, and as such we should be looking to mitigate those effects in any way possible.
Our second independent point though is that even if you think that like global warming is a myth or whatever, that pollution itself is just a generally good thing to avoid.
So look to like beijing, for example, with the significant amount of smog that creates horrible like quality of life effects.
I think even if you're stepping away from the broader environmental effects, they're very obvious measurable ways in which consumption of fossil fuels has generated significant harms upon the people of the planet.
So, if you want to mitigate these types of things that lead to like lung disease and like various types of ailments, it's necessary to cut down on the usage of coal, oil, other fossil fuels, and instead transition to things like solar and like you know hydroelectricity, in order to ensure that you are you know creating less of those externalities.
Our third and final point though is the economics behind this switch.
And I think this is probably what's most important here.
The f a fundamental basis for continuing to use fossil fuels is that they're cheap.
Coal especially is extremely extremely cheap to use relative to the output.
So what you're probably going to hear from op is like: " oh, but like transitioning the world to solar power, whatever, would be vastly more expensive and people would have to pay more for electricity. "
While this is probably true in the short term.
I think there's sort of two reasons why in the long term this isn't true.
The first is that when you you know have enough of the the international grid so to speak put on these types of sustainable energy, the amount of money that goes into researching and investing in you know perfecting these forms of energy goes up significantly.
So we think that right now a lot of like global giants like exxon mobil for example are, while they're somewhat investing in things like solar technology, they're mostly focused on the status quo of fossil fuels.
We think though if you sort of pushed for that balance to shift toward sustainable energy, the research money would go towards making things like solar or hydroelectricity significantly cheaper.
But the second and more important reason is that the finite nature of fossil fuels means eventually you're going to run out.
And at that point then, two things happen: one, in the interim the scarce resources drive up the cost of fossil fuels extraordinarily high to the point where they don't become financially usable anymore.
But secondly when they do run out you're left with technology that's not affordable, because the research hasn't been put in yet to drive down the costs.
As a result, we prefer a world where we simply ease ourselves into sustainable energy by doing the leg work now to make sure that what we have to put our grid entirely on sustainable electricity, it's out a point where it's developed enough to be cheap and like a feasible source of energy for the entire planet.
Proud to propose.