I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce year round schooling.
In terms of the way that this is modeled I think there's a lack of clarity here.
Generally this is construed as something where instead of having one long summer break you have a lot of smaller like week long breaks stirred in throughout the year.
So this then provides sort of a problem for gov, I think, because either you either they're doing that model, in which case I'll get to those arguments in a bit, or they're not doing that model, in which case they just keep kids in the classroom for a huge amount of time.
I think that then just exacerbates the harms that I'm about to get into.
But regardless of which model they take on I think that there's an issue.
So let's start with our first independent point then, that there is an educational and emotional need for a prolonged break.
First from the educational perspective.
I think that there's a lot of stress that is put on by school, particularly frequent and repetitive schooling.
Especially at upper grades there is like a just a lot of information to absorb and very high expectations that are often put on individuals.
The school system is designed to usually get people to learn as much as they can and it can adjust for the individual and as such we think that that puts a lot of stress on them by you know constantly having them work, constantly exposing them to new concepts, and constantly taxing them from a mental perspective.
That then I think justifies a long break.
Often it is difficult to have the sort of like mental state that is associated with an actual break in the shorter week-long breaks rather there is a proactive need for a longer one because that actually frees you from the mental state of seeing school as something that is impending and coming around the corner.
I think if their model though doesn't even have those short breaks that's an even bigger issue that you would never get released from that stress and instead are just for like twelve years subjected to just incredible amounts of stress.
This also applies at an emotional level of course, again, lots of repetitive stress and expectations put upon young children with developing brain also has a significant emotional component to it that can actually sustain long term psychological damage you know if these children aren't given an actual break and an opportunity to actually relieve themselves from this stress.
Our second independent point is that there's a developmental need for a break that is the actual giving children freedom for a significant period of time during the summer is important to their development as individuals.
Gov particularly sites out the example of like playing with water guns as like a poor use of time.
I think there's actually good reason to disagree with this though.
That having, a, the capacity to you know sort of relieve yourself from school and have that freedom and peace of mind but also the freedom to learn things that you can't learn in a classroom is really important.
Going to summer camp, if you're wealthier, or even just like playing in the streets with your friends, if you don't have the money you know to go to summer camp or something like that, can be an important experience in that it allows childrens to sort of learn about the world that they live in in ways that you can't be taught in a classroom.
I think just sort of like being out there and being in the world without any sort of real restrictions on what you can do at a particular time is an important experience in a child's development.
Our third independent plane point is employment access.
So gov particularly takes issue with the fact that childcare puts a disproportionate burden on like poorer families.
I think there's a couple problems with this.
One is that a lot of municipalities actually offer like free childcare or like low cost summer camp.
But another is that actually while this is potentially a burden when children are much younger, it's becomes a benefit when they get older because it gives children an opportunity to seek employment.
You can't do this with a short weeklong breaks but for a summer you can do this and that's important because it gives poorer children the opportunity to actually like make some money that they can then use to spend on things that they want that which richer kids usually are the only ones that have access to because of disproportionate capital in their parents hands.
That then I think not only allows the child to develop emotionally from you know having the experience of working to buy something for themselves but also provides a direct capital benefit to poorer families.
Proud to oppose.