I'm proud to support the motion that we should subsidize condoms.
The model for this will look a lot like the way that we subsidize agricultural goods right now so producers and distributors will receive subsidies essentially that allow them to decrease prices so that the consumer is the one that benefits and like I guess distributors and producers can like skim a little off of the top but for the most part what we're looking at is just lower prices across the board because of government subsidies.
So we have two independent points, the first is that condoms are just something that creates societal good and as such justifies government intervention to decrease the prices of.
Notably condoms are good at mitigating the spread of STD's, reducing pregnancy rates, and we would say that this is something that is worth preserving for the state that the government should have a vested interest in insuring the well being of its citizens but we also think that much of the way that you might think of say vaccination that the use of condoms has externalities on the people that aren't using them that by mitigating the spread of STD's for example you decrease the likelihood that any other person even if they're not using condoms is going to receive an STD.
By reducing the pregnancy rate, you decrease healthcare costs since government obligated healthcare spending generated by things like caring for children or child tax credits.
We think then that even if you're not just looking specifically at the people who benefit directly from the use of a condom we think that there are broader societal benefits that justify government intervention or government involvement.
Our second independent point though is that government funding of condoms decreases the disparities that currently exist in access to them.
We think that particularly in poor communities there's just less access to condoms because they're sort of expensive like they're not going to break the bank but they're relatively costly and a lot of people if the decision is like I'm going to use a condom versus I'm going to eat dinner tonight, your average person will eat dinner tonight.
Like that's a relatively straightforward calculation.
We think though that this is inherently unfair that in the way we often think of healthcare, education as rights we should think of condoms in a similar sense.
That is that if this is something that is just objectively going to increase a person's quality of life and this is something that creates broader spillover benefits for society, how much money you have in your wallet or your bank account or whatever shouldn't be the deciding factor in whether or not you get to benefit from that thing.
We think the condoms are so deeply important to ensuring an individual's health by ensuring that they don't get STD's or have accidental pregnancies that it is worth insuring that there isn't disparities in access to this product.
We think it is inherently unfair when poorer people are simply told no you just have to deal with the fact that you're going to risk getting an STD with a higher probability than someone who is wealthier.
At that point then we think that this creates a state justification for intervening in this market and decreasing prices.
Proud to propose.