I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should implement compulsory voting.
First a quick model.
So we would say that we're going to you know fine people something probably pretty meager like hundred dollars tops for any sort for missing any sort of election including municipal ones.
We would allow people to appeal their fines you know if there's a very good reason why they weren't able to vote the hospital or something but generally speaking we would say that everyone has to vote and if not they will get the fine.
So two independent points or three.
First is better representation.
So when everyone participates in a democracy you get a better proxy I think this is just intuitively true the reason why we hold elections is to proxy the will of the people that they vote for the candidates that they are most comfortable with and when you have better turn out you have a better proxying of the will of the electorate or of the of the general population.
So this is important because it first gives governments much more confidence in what they're doing.
They no longer have to you know look to the silly things that as you know proxies for what the will of the people are like that thing that they heard that person in that diner say once.
Instead they can just look to you know election results because they're just so much more reliable now.
If everyone participates in them this is truly a mandate on what the opinions of the populace are.
But secondly it allows for better representation because people who don't vote right now aren't being represented.
They're not they don't have their voices heard in congress and while this is to an extent a personal decision that they decided not to vote we think a, their other barriers to voting that I'll discuss shortly but b, that it's still just bad when they're not represented that even if it's a personal decision it's just better to have them represented than not.
Our second independent point is that implementing compulsory voting forces increased access laws from a political perspective.
In the status quo there's a lot of limits on voting.
Things like you know ID laws things like you know restrictions on when people can show up to the polls.
This is happening in a lot of states particularly in the deep south.
This is a problem because it makes it harder for people to vote and have their voices heard but we think that it's harder to implement these laws from a political perspective when everybody has to vote.
Like the thin veil behind this right now is basically like yeah we're okay with telling a couple people that they can't vote if the trade-off is that you know look illegitimate voters like non-citizens don't get to vote so I think people are going to be a lot less comfortable making that trade-off when voting is seen as something that literally every single person has to do.
If it's seen as a lot more intrinsic of a right then it is politically more difficult to implement these access laws.
So given that we think that there's going to be greater access to voting for people that want to vote but currently can't because the political pressures that are created by implementing this policy.
So the third independent point is just briefly that when you're talking about whether or not people have the right to not vote I think that that's still within the scope of you know this law.
That essentially people do have the capacity under compulsory voting to decide not to vote.
They can pay the fine but I think that's important right is that people see not voting as a way to I dont know to express discontent with the system or express their opposition to the way in which the country is being run.
You still have that capacity but you just have to pay a fine now and I think that's a reasonable trade-off because the reality is that when you don't vote that creates a level of harm right?
That creates a last representative democracy, that creates one that is less you know predicated on ensuring that every person's voice is heard and more more concerned with just ensuring that only the people that have the time or resources to vote are the ones who actually have their voices heard.
So you undermine the stability of your government when you refuse to vote.
I think we're comfortable with fining people for that.
Proud to propose.