I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize same sex marriage.
Our first independent point is that marriage is a specific religious construct that is meaningfully distinct from other constructs of like unions between two individuals and as such it should maintain its initial religious integrity.
So specifically gov brings up in their modeling that they don't believe that something like like civil union is actually a sufficient allocation of rights.
I think the problem with this is that while there are obviously certain basic legal rights that should be afforded to individuals, you can do that through civil unions, you can afford you know civil rights and things like that two people you know through these unions.
The specific issue with extending marriage as something that should go to to should be extended to same sex couples then is that marriage is a distinct thing.
What makes it distinct from civil unions is that you know historical religious context and that historical religious context of course held up by orthodoxy in pretty much every major religion is that that is something that is between a man and a woman and it's not extended to same sex couples.
That therefore creates an issue where we think that specifically this is impeding upon the integrity of these individual religions and that in so far as the rights allocation is met through civil unions you should just do that instead.
Our second independent point is that marriage as a construct is probably bad and that this solidifies the basically the integrity of marriage as an institution in our society.
So we think that broadly speaking it's probably bad when the state is involved in the decision over what qualifies as union between two individuals.
There's a lot of gray sounds there you know there's a between cohabitation and like full-on marriage and we think that broadly speaking this is something that should just be like a private agreement between two individuals.
We think then that extending marriage is something that is universally applied to individuals rather than recognizing it as just sort of like this religious construct ingrains it further into our society as something that is itself a right but we don't want marriage to be a right we want marriage if anything to just sort of be like an outdated thing of the past that just belongs to the religious orthodoxy.
So we think then that when you extend marriage to more groups that are looking to access it, that normalizes it is something that is an institution in our society that should be preserved.
Fundamentally we oppose that and fundamentally then we say that this is something that should be done away with in that you don't want to you know basically further ingrain this into like our culture and our society by maximizing the number of people it effects, an increasing number of stakeholders.
Our last put is backlash our third point points backlash rather and specifically what we mean by this is that individuals particularly hyper religious and conservative individuals see the extension of marriage to same sex couples as an infringement upon religious liberties.
Regardless of the validity of those concerns we think that there are tangible instances where in violence against LGBT individuals increases post marriage equality we think that there are spikes in sort of hate speech against LGBT individuals and there's also policy backlash that the you know the public demand for things like taking down anti-discrimination laws and with things like you see would like in illinois for example the expansion of like religious or sorry indiana with the expansion of religious liberty cases like that thing with the cake bakers in the pizza shop like these sorts of individual acts of discrimination increase within when you legalize marriage we think that the trade off here is just like simply not worth it.
Proud to oppose.