I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should increase immigration to the united states.
For the model this gets interpreted essentially as just increasing the number of people that we allow to immigrate annually into the united states.
We can do this through any number of means you know increasing the number of visas that we allow you know taking measures to increase you know you know citizenship procedures and speed up that process.
What we're essentially defending in this speech is to say that the current rate is below what it should be and that there are principled reasons why we should be allowing more people.
So three independent points.
First is the economic contributions made by immigrants.
In the united states there is not a lot of willingness of people that currently live here to do work that is perceived as being beneath.
Them.
This is things like you know food particularly in the agricultural industry but also in food processing also a lot factory work things like that.
But like factory work that's not like perfectly lining up with like the american dream and like coal mining like really really dirty factory work.
This is like largely a product of classism but regardless of what the cost is we've tried for a long time to solve it and get people to take these jobs and they often just don't.
Immigration is necessary then for fulfilling these jobs because people that come from cultures that you know are much more you know comfortable with poverty or not comfortable but you know have much more experience being poor and being forced to you know take this sort of work and are less likely to have these classist attitudes towards manual labor they're much more willing to fill these jobs.
And this is something that's economically necessary for the united states to meet the labor demand that we have right now.
If there are unfulfilled jobs then you have corporations that just don't work, you have trade systems that just don't work.
So this is you know something was really vitally important for the country.
Our second independent point is that this is actually something that helps immigrants themselves really significantly.
You know they're they're coming here because they are seeking a better life often fleeing persecution in other countries that are war torn or experiencing significant hardship.
People don't you know just get up and decide they're going to go to the united states just because they feel like it on a whim like they have good reasons for you know giving up everything where they're coming from basically, abandoning their home and coming to the united states.
It's because of that promise of a better life.
Insofar as this has really profound impacts on the individual and allows them to just live a better life, we think that that's a noble goal for the united states to pursue.
To allow people to live in in in a happier life without caring too much about your country of origin because this is something that really fundamentally matters to you.
Our third and final independent point is that there are just sort of structural reasons when you look at the status quo to see why it is why we are letting less people in than we really probably should.
It's obviously impossible to pin down what the exact number of immigrants coming into the country should be like what is the maximally reasonable number but the only real constraint on this should be how many people we can feasibly support basically.
I think we're doing it just fine though with the current rate like if you look at the the current constraints on immigration it's largely a political constraint that comes from the far-right.
That is asserted xenophobic attitude towards people entering like that's what keeps visa rates low and things like that.
And at that point I think it is eminently reasonable to say these are artificial constraints, these aren't actually rooted in any sort of rational principle and at that point I think we should strike down these constraints and try to normalize a bit.
Again it's not really possible to say what the exact number should be but I think the fact that the current constraints are artificially constructed by xenophobic attitudes demonstrates that the rate that we're looking at right now is you know not reasonable.
Proud to propose.