I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should limit the right to self defense.
I'd like to start this with an overview, getting primarily at the last point put forward by government.
That is the argument that the right to self defense is not universal and is often advantages individuals that are you know stronger, faster, have more capacity to defend themselves in a court of law, that sort of thing.
I think the problem with this argument and with a lot of the analysis that gov brings forward is that while there is a distinction in you know capacity to utilize this right, the right is still fundamental, and I'll get into that in a moment but it's important to recognize that one, people can use weapons.
You know pepper spray for example is an effective tool in people you know defending themselves against individuals who are maybe stronger than them, but also even if there is an imbalance in capacity to utilize it, that doesn't make it any less fundamental to the individual.
So I think if we meet the burden of proving that right to self defense is something that is fundamental to the individual, then this is something that we should ensure is you know allocated to as many people as possible.
This brings me into the first independent point, that principally speaking, the right to self defense is extremely fundamental and should be you know applied judiciously in insuring people's right to safety.
So specifically we think that the right to self defense is facilitative to the right to life.
I don't think I need to explain to too much detail why the right to life matters.
You know this is something that itself is facilitative to every other right we have because you can't exercise any of your rights or any of you preferences if you're dead.
So the right to self defense then is important to ensuring one's own right to life.
If you feel that you are ever you know threatened in terms of your life or even your personal safety and health, we think that there is a proactive right to defend that in the same way that you know we protect property rights and in the same way that we protect speech rights.
We think that it is fundamentally important to allow people to defend their very fundamental rights you know in order to ensure that they can actually maintain them.
Given that then we think that there is, generally speaking, in contrary to what government says a proactive need to ensure that people can you know defend themselves appropriately as they see fit.
This then brings me to my second point and I think getting at lot of what is said in the earlier portions of gov's speech is that imperfect analysis, that is that lack of capacity to make informed decisions when one is terrified as government points out is exactly what necessitates the need for broad protections.
Gov frames the fact that people make poor decisions when they're terrified as a reason as to why they should have no right to self defense in those situations and government intervention is necessary.
This is unreasonable for the most basic reason that the fact that you were terrified doesn't mitigate the present danger.
If someone's life is in danger, you can't just be like oh alright well I'm not going to make a reasonable decision right now so I just kind of like sit down and twiddle my thumbs like if you feel that your life is in danger you need to take some degree of action.
So I don't think the fact that people's you know judgment is clouded in that moment mitigates the need to actually do something to defend one's own life or safety.
Given that then, we think that there is a need for a broad protection on the basis that judgment is almost always going to be cloudy in these scenarios.
We think that it is unreasonable to expect people to make perfectly formed informed decisions when you know you're in such a tense and dangerous scenario.
Given that then, the standard that government sets up that is that you know you should just not act on behalf of your own life when you feel that it is in danger doesn't follow through and isn't principally consistent with the right to life.
Proud to oppose.