I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should reform teacher tenure, specifically under the gov model reform teacher reform teacher tenure to make it easier to fire teachers.
Our first independent point is that the tenure system provides a check against bureaucrats who often don't understand the intricacies of teaching.
So, I think a lot of the problems that teachers have gripes with, specifically with regards to administrative structures that are riddled with bureaucracy, come back to the basic root of the fact that a lot of the people who set the rules and make the decisions on, you know, how a school system operates are often people that don't have a very intricate understanding of how teaching itself works.
These are often politically-elected people, especially in districts where, you know, the school board is elected, or they're legislatures, people from, you know, state houses, who make decisions based on hiring practices and teaching methods.
All this means that a lot of the time good teaching doesn't correlate with good results because the benchmarks are set by people that don't understand the system very well.
In essence then, this creates a necessity for teachers to have leverage over the system, for the people that understand the profession to have some decision-making capacity.
And the tenure system, then, puts the power in the hands of unions.
While we think that there are obviously problems with teachers unions, we think that they are broadly better decision-makers than these elected officials and other individuals who don't understand the system as well, because they're comprised of the teachers themselves, people that know how to teach.
Given that, then, we think that putting you in the ward of the the union essentially creates a check against the bureaucrats and others that don't get how the system works and aren't in the best position to make decisions on who stays and who goes.
Our second independent point is that this policy mitigates the harms of school closures.
So I think one particularly good example is recently in boston.
Excel high school and brighton high school were both closed.
These teachers then were all essentially given pink slips but put on like a temporary leave.
The ones with tenure are going to be able to , well technically they all do, but the ones with tenure have special protections that allow them to come back and apply for jobs at other schools.
Realistically speaking, most of them will be able to meet the just increased demand essentially for more teachers because more students will be going to these other buildings now, but they'll also be able to replace, hopefully, some of the worst teachers in those other schools.
This is important.
Tenure ensures that when a school closes, its best teachers don't leave with it.
The school gets to hang on to the infrastructure it's developed within these within that actual individual building.
And as such, it ensures that we can actually maintain a system wherein we, you know, have the best teachers available, where just because a this individual school has to close for, you know, whatever reason, be it financial or political or whatever, we don't lose the teachers with it.
Our last independent point is that tender just makes teaching a more attractive profession.
We think that a lot of the time the quality of individuals working in any industry or any field is determined by how attractive that position is, you know, people want to become doctors because being a doctor pays really well.
So a lot of our best and brightest minds then accrue to the medical professions.
Likewise, we would like to create a system wherein teachers are , you know, seen in the same way.
We think this is a systemically important role because it is important to the development of children.
However, you know, schools are often underfunded.
So we don't have the ability to just pay teachers boatloads of money.
So, instead, we have to afford them, you know, employment protections essentially.
Things like tenure ensure the teachers can, you know, being a teacher can be an attractive job and we attract qualified individuals to fulfill that profession, even though we don't necessarily have the money to just shower them with benefits and pay raises.
Proud to oppose.