I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should teach abstinence only sex education mandatorily in all schools.
Our first independent point is that this is simply an ineffective method of ensuring the types of things that side government seems to want.
So specifically side government talks about that people, you know, aren't are going to engage in more sexual activity when you teach them safe sex sexual education.
This is probably true.
I think the comparative though is that the end impact they talk about, like teen pregnancy and STDs, are more prevalent when you teach them a method that simply just doesn't protect.
I think first, recognize that there is a biological drive to have sex.
Teenagers, particularly going through puberty, obviously experience this biological drive, so it's a more or less an inevitability.
I think the rises in sexual activity that occur in sex positive education programs are meager at best.
But the important comparison is that they are less likely to participate in safe practices.
That is, that they are you know less likely to use condoms, less likely to use other forms of birth control for that matter, and as a result they are just more likely to experience these end point harms that side government is so concerned with.
On the aggregate then, if your end goal is to mitigate teen pregnancy and STDs, it is significantly more reasonable to teach the safe practices than it is to just like pretend that children aren't going to have sex.
This leads me into my closely related second point, that because it doesn't prepare people properly, essentially people will go into the real world without a genuine understanding of sexual relations.
So, this is really important.
Is that even if you buy their assumption that like abstinence only sex education actually prevents people from having sex during their teenage years, in the long term they eventually get to a point where, I think, any reasonable person would be comfortable with them having sex.
At that point then, it's important to recognize that a, the impacts as mentioned earlier still apply, that they don't have access to the knowledge about how to properly administer birth control or how to properly prevent STDs.
But on top of that, more deep level things that are also taught in sex positive education programs, like how to identify and escape abusive relationships, or you know how to adjust for you know power imbalances within relationships, these types of things which are taught at a decent amount of high schools, aren't afforded to these individuals, and as a result there is a significant issue in terms of instances of abuse and things like that, and we think that it is preferable to have a program that teaches these properly.
I do want to briefly address the claim made by side government that you know this all goes in one ear and out the other.
I think this is just statistically untrue, you can look at the the statistical record on most of these issues and it is just inherently true that STD and teen pregnancy rates go down when you have safe sex education.
At that point then it seems like kids are like there's obviously no statistical method to figure out like how well they're listening in class, but it certainly seems like it's having a pretty tangible effect.
Our third independent point is the democratic will.
So I find it really interesting that gov brings up that like people want abstinence only education.
A quick like cursory google search just sort of showed the most recent poll I could find that had any sort of broad national basis was a yougov poll from twenty fifteen, that showed that fifteen percent of people want abstinence only sex education.
This isn't even a plurality, never mind a majority.
And at that point it seems really unreasonable to claim that like this is the type of sex education that the populace wants.
I think all the arguments for why following the will of the people is best are reasonable arguments, I just don't think that abstinence only sex education meets those standards.
Proud to oppose.