I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce school vouchers.
Two independent points.
The first of which is that the policy hurts public schools.
It's important in this debate to preserve the integrity of public schools and to preserve the quality of them and the reason for this is that it is structurally and financially impossible to give everybody a voucher.
You cannot implement infinite choice both in terms of just the scale that operation would take but also in terms of the money associated with it.
More on that in a moment.
So at that point then, lots of people will go to public schools.
You can determine this by geography or a lottery, like what ever your method is there's still going to be a lot of kids in standard public schools not taking advantage of this voucher program.
Those children then, are going to suffer under this policy.
Three reasons, first is economies of scale.
So when you have a lot of people in one building, that is cheaper per person than having lots of people in various different buildings.
This is because of shared facilities.
So for example, a physical building itself and also shared you know amenities things like transportation and busing networks for example.
This then creates a problem for the public schools because when you reduce the number of people using one building, the per person cost increases drastically because those fixed costs don't change.
Second is and of course like the decreased money per person just means like less services so like you're going to have to have like bigger classroom sizes, or just like worse amenities, maybe less after school programs that sort of thing.
Second is political wealth.
That when there are less people in the public school system, there is less political will to actually facilitate that change.
We think this is especially true because a lot of the people that would take advantage of a voucher program religious families, richer families, that sort of thing, are the types of families that also have outsize political influence because of their capacity to donate and because of their frequency of voting.
Third is the inequity that's intrinsic to this system that because you have that because you have these imbalances in the budget at the public school system, this in turn means that the people they go to the better schools as government puts it, are going to have better opportunity.
This creates a downward cycle then because the students then in public schools get even less access to things like college, and financial aid, that sort of thing and as such, there's less demand for these public schools and they're put into a tailspin.
This then means that those who are trapped behind in the public school system suffer greatly.
Our second independent point cuts to I think a lot of the meat of what's in the first independent point put forward by government and that's that we intrinsically think that inter-school competition is bad.
Two reasons, first is that competition incentivizes schools to operate on thin margins for the same reasons that businesses like to operate on you know -sickly a for profit model.
Because of competition want to increase their their relative profit to other firms.
We think schools will do the same that they'll cut corners in order to secure more funding in order to achieve amenities that make their school more attractive.
The problem of course is that we don't think the things that make schools attractive always perfectly correlate with educational quality because often people a just don't understand what makes for good education, but b people are often just attracted by shiny things like a swimming pool at their school or whatever.
We think then, that this creates a educational landscape in which consumers or parents make all the calls on what qualifies as good education and not actual professionals in the field like teachers but second, we think that competition means there's losers.
That firms in an open market often fail and this is fine when it's just like a firm, but when we think people's educational futures are at stake we want to minimize failing schools.
We don't want a public school to buckle because they couldn't keep up with the with like a charter school's capacity and at that point then because we think children suffer extremely when a school closes or fails, we want to preserve a system that maintains that that does not happen.
Proud to oppose.