I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should adopt socialism.
I think it's important, given the specificity of the model that was provided by gov, to briefly reiterate it, and it is to place power and vested interest in the resources of a country, in the hands of the working class.
I think this is a really important distinction, and I want to explain how this differs from the status quo.
Right now, the system we operate in has a degree of moneyed interests, I think this is made clear by government speech.
But, it is largely governed by a system of bureaucracies, elected officials, things like that.
I think the fundamental way that government's policy changes the status quo is to divest from that system of bureaucracy, and move more towards direct democracy.
I think this is made clear by their arguments, regarding how it vests power in the hands of the people.
So, what I'd like to focus on is how the status quo, the system of bureaucracy, that is to be fair capable of being swayed by moneyed interests, is preferable to the system that they described.
Three points of analysis: first, that asymmetries of information mean that bureaucracies are uniquely capable of dealing with policy issues, second, that tyranny of the majority is a near certainty on their side of the house, and third, that private interests create a check against government overreach.
First, on the point of asymmetries of information.
I think it's important to recognize, that these bureaucrats have a livelihood that is crafting policy.
So, they become pretty good at their jobs.
Somebody that spends decades toiling away in the transportation department, tends to know transportation policy very well.
I think the problem then is that on side government, the system they describe means that farmers, and people that are very knowledgeable about their wheelhouse, and their livelihood, are making decisions on things that they don't quite understand, things that they can be swayed upon, pretty easily, by money interests, from an external standpoint, or alternatively, just cast their ballots based on the things, that sound intuitive, but don't actually reflect what the ideal policy landscape should look like.
Given that, I think while the status quo is slightly less representative, or that is like less direct participation, it still results in better outcomes for the people on the ground.
On the second point, that tyranny of the majority happens on their side of the house.
I think it's worth stating, that the majority is often wrong in a lot of things.
Things, that we consider fairly obvious today, were actually pretty minority positions mm just a couple decades ago.
Things like gay rights, things like racism, sexism, lots of basic policy, like whether or not taxes should be a thing, that are existing on a large scale, a lot of these word intuitive shortly though.
The model doesn't have protections for minorities, however.
We don't have systems in place, like a senate, that gives equal representation to people based on their geographic distribution, and I think that's problematic then, because putting hands power directly in the hands of the people in a way that just immediately hands this over to them, with no sorts of checks and balances, doesn't allow for protections of minority interests, that are extremely valid.
And a third point, that private interests check the government.
I think a lot of bad socialism, you think of the stereotypical examples like china or russia, is a product of very little infrastructure to challenge governmental overreach.
Things like, obviously, abusive policies to target political opposition are largely a product of the fact, that when you put power directly in the hands of the majority, things like unions and powerful groups, that can keep their people in line, you create a monopoly of force.
That's bad.
You want to have some level of nongovernmental actors, that can take action in a meaningful way against the government, and stand up to governmental overreach, to ensure that you don't have this sort of tyranny.
Given that that infrastructure doesn't exist in the world that gov creates, I think you inevitably wind up with a worse world.
Proud to oppose.