I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion that we should abandon social mdeia.
Three points of analysis under this.
First that there is better interaction between individuals in a world with social media.
Secondly, there is better awareness of the world around us and those that are beyond the reach of what generally is our reach under interpersonal conversation.
And thirdly, that the keeping up with the joneses effect that is described very thoroughly by side government is actually worse on their side of the house.
Regarding the first piece of analysis that interaction is better in a world with social media, I think it's important before getting into any of this that there isn't really a tradeoff with direct interaction.
People still have interpersonal conversations, because things like school or work or whatever it is still requires you to have that level of interpersonal interaction.
I don't think this is a zero-sum decision.
I think that, generally, people are going to be at home for a decent amount of their time, whether this is the forties or whether it's now and realistically, all that means is that social media and things like messenger allow you to continue conversations that you normally wouldn't be able to continue if you weren't in a room with that person.
But recognize that even if there is a meaningful tradeoff, I still think that social media interaction suffices, because a: it's a lot more efficiency or there is a lot more efficiency in this.
Like, recognize that this is something that, you know, you can have like rapid conversations, you don't have to wait to be in a room with the individual, but also recognize that there is like uncertainty in interpersonal interaction, that there're still things like difficult to read, like, facial signals that people, even in a world without social media, still aren't terribly good at having these types of conversations, because some people are just shy or awkward or things like that.
My second independent point is awareness of the world around us.
So I think it's important to recognize that social media creates connections with people around the world.
There is diversity in your exposure.
It is unlikely that I would know much about the demonetization in india if not for the fact that this is something that every now and then shows up on my news feed.
Because you are constantly plugged into something that connects you to the world around you, you are a lot more likely to pick up on these types of things.
That's something that's good in and of itself.
But it's also worth recognizing there are interpersonal benefits of this awareness, like holding on to old friendships that you normally wouldn't have the capacity to hold onto if you didn't have social media at your side.
They say on side government that there's echo chambers on social media.
I think this exists interpersonally though.
Things like our decisions in where he work or where we live geographically are always going to have the same selection biases, so I don't think it's terribly unique to social media.
What's really important, though, is that you're spreading ideas that are often shunned in polite society.
That means a wider overton window or a wider window of things that are considered worth saying or acceptable to say in polite society.
The reason why this is true is because generally when you're engaging in some sort of interpersonal interaction with a person that you have recently met, you don't have a basis on which to know whether or not they're going to be receptive to certain types of conversations.
On social media, however, you do have that basis.
You know a decent amount about the person's life because you can simply look at their profile.
So, what that means is that, generally speaking, these echo chambers that they are so worried about on side government result in more discourse, because it allows people to discuss things that would not normally be considered acceptable in this like very small overton window on their side of the house.
The last thing I'd like to talk about is these keeping up with the joneses effect.
So I think this is true in the forties, right?
The term was literally coined in the forties, but it's worth recognizing that it's not rooted as much in material things on our side of the house, that historically this is about buying some fancy car or whatever that makes you look better than your neighbors.
So, if on our side of the house, the worst thing that we have to deal with is people being like really vain and obsessed with their instagram photos, I think that is a reasonable comparative that is significantly better than the things that they have to deal with on their side of the house.
Proud to oppose.