I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should introduce covenant marriage.
So the first independent point we'd like to advance is that this is simply an option and that insofar as it's just an option that people can you know choose, we think it's completely fair to just increase the number of options people have for the type of marriage they would like to partake in.
This is an important burden in the round because I think it's really fundamental to what this debate gets at.
This is not around about whether everybody has to enter covenant marriages and as a result this shouldn't be around about whether or not covenant marriages are inherently superior to other types of marriages.
This is just a round about whether or not covenant marriages should be an option to prospective couples.
At that point then op's burden in this round is to show that covenant marriages are inherently bad ideas, that they don't work for anybody because I think often there are lots of people for whom these are good options and do care about them.
For example, the very religious nature of covenant marriages specifically appeals to lots of people.
Religion matters to large amounts of people and particularly in the united states where there are large christian faith but also other faiths that have specific stipulations on what constitutes marriage, we think it's reasonable then to integrate that into the legal system in such a way that ensures that these peoples' best interests are being represented.
Again this is something that individuals consent into so by no means then does this really blur the line between state and church because you're not forcing people who don't subscribe to that religion to deal with the practices of said religion.
Our second independent point is more it just broadly in defense of the notion of a covenant marriage that divorce is something that is bad and has social ramifications.
And as such it's useful to have a form of marriage that tries to mitigate the rate of instances of divorce.
Recently there's been a large increase in the number of divorces over you know last couple of decades.
Largely is this is something that's become more normalized in society.
And while we're fine with you know getting rid of the stigma associated with divorce in such a way that people aren't publicly shamed for it, we do think it's reasonable to create a legal infrastructure that makes it less that makes it less easy for people to just rush into divorce head first.
This has a lot of social harms in terms of the normalization of this is something that people can go into but particularly family structures and children especially divorce is a very disruptive process.
It can have really severe implications on childrens' emotional stability and long term stability and as such it's not something that should be you know decided on on a whim.
We think having that legal infrastructure then that insures that people are fully aware of the implications of what they're about to do when they pursue divorce is something that's particularly beneficial to maintaining the integrity of the family structure.
Our third independent point is that marriage is something that really really matters and we think that covenant marriages particularly force couples through premarital counseling to reconcile with the gravity of the decision they're about to make.
So again this is just sort of broadly in defense of covenant marriages and what sort of social benefits they bring.
We think that often people rush into marriage without thinking much about the consequences that it'll have on their life in the long term.
People often make these decisions without really calculating you know how significant of a decision this is.
They just think of it as something that they have to do in their lives, but we don't think that that's true.
We don't think that people should just rush into marriage because it's what they're supposed to do.
We think that it's something that really requires a lot of thought before hand and premarital counseling in particular allows you to have to you know go through that thought process and really think this over before you go through with the marriage.
Proud to propose.