I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban hunting.
Three independent points, the first is sustenance.
So we think there's this like conception on side government that the only people who ever engage in hunting are just like these people in like rural tennessee who like to go hunting because it's like what people in rural tennessee do.
I'll get to sort of like the cultural and like pleasure aspects of hunting in a bit but I think what's important to recognize is that when you enact a law or a ban that ban applies to everybody.
I think there are large populations, especially indigenous populations, that are reliant for their survival on hunting.
This is why for example we give like exemptions to whaling bans to like inuit populations in alaska.
So the problem here is pretty fundamental that insofar as a lot of populations rely on hunting in order to survive, you are essentially weighing human rights against animal rights and we think that there are really two reasons why you always prefer human rights in that comparison.
The first is that we think that rights largely are derived from intelligence in your capacity to create a clear cut hierarchy of preferences and you know rank those preferences and think about them with complex reasoning.
This is a skill that's pretty unique to humans.
I guess like some types of monkeys and like chimps and apes are capable of it too but most of them don't really get hunted like there's already bans on that so that's not unique.
For most for the most part like the types of animals we're talking about that get hunted like deer for example, don't have those higher order reasoning capacities that make it like really a question of whether or not like they have rights but secondly, we think that rights are a uniquely human construct.
That this is something that is based on human conceptions of good and not good in insofar as these animals don't really have conceptions of like justice or like morally right and wrong things, that that there like this type of suffering they experience is like fundamentally different from our type of suffering and as such, it's inherently arbitrary to apply those conceptions to animals.
So given that then, given that you're always going to prefer the human rights over the animal rights, we think that because like there are human populations reliant on hunting to survive, it's important to prioritize those populations above the animals.
Our second independent point is that there is a human cultural connection to hunting that's important to preserve.
So this is where we get into the types of examples that gov actually grapples with your like hunter in like rural tennessee that does it for sport.
So we think that that cultural connection is valid in something worth preserving.
That even if animals do you have at some basic level a certain value that humans also have a right to essentially like live their culture that they have historically grown up in.
We think this is true because it's tied up in their identity that insofar as we as individuals find our self-worth and find our happiness in who we are and by extension the activities we engage in, if those activities are tied up in a sense of identity or a culture that is historically grounded and intrinsically important to us, we should be able to act on that.
It is our fundamental right because it is so key to our happiness.
At the end of the day, I think the only thing that really matters in terms of rights is just like whether or not something makes people happier on the aggregate and at the end of the day, if being able to hunt makes people on average happier, we should just let them do that.
Our third and final independent point is overpopulation.
We think a lot of animal populations, particularly like in the american northeast and like some other like wooded areas, are largely kept in check by hunting season.
Like rabbits for example or deer would be massively over populated in a relatively short period of time if we just wholesale banned hunting because the population has grown in response to the expectation that a decent amount of them are going to be killed off every season by hunters.
If you just suddenly stop that we think there's huge disruption to local ecosystems.
So a wholesale band will most likely create more harms for animals than it will benefits.
Proud to oppose.