I'm proud to stand in proposition in the motion that boarding schools should be abolished.
Three independent points.
The first is that boarding school represents a decreased family connection that the child has, you know, with their family.
I think this is pretty intuitive as to why this is true certainly, you know, you spend a lot of your time in a boarding school, isolated away from your family.
Even if it's one of the boarding schools where you get to, you know, come back on weekends, this is still a pretty significant amount of time that you're spending away from the people that are supposed to be most invested in your success and in your happiness and your well-being.
When the, you know, boarding school professors and what not, when they become your caretakers, that it seems inherently problematic, because these aren't people that, you know, are your family.
These aren't people whose top priority is your safety and well-being.
There's a certain value in having that familial structure that for your parents their top priority will always be you.
When you're so young and so vulnerable, it's important to have someone that invested in your safety, and when you're not as connected to that group of people, when you're, you know, physically separated from them and emotionally to an extent as well, that represents a serious problem in the development of the child in ensuring that they will be able to, you know, go on at lead a happy life, because they had that protection when they were younger and when they had that emotional support when they were younger.
Our second independent point is that boarding schools increase the likelihood of abuse of children.
So this is both from a physical and from a sexual perspective.
Reporting of either of these issues is really, really rare in boarding schools and that's led to, in recent years, a spike in allegations and in , you know, verified allegations of abuse in these schools.
The reason why this is so rampant is actually quite comparable to why it happened in the catholic church for so long, that there are structural barriers to reporting these instances.
For one thing, these are children, but that's non-unique to boarding schools.
What makes boarding schools so much worse is the fact that you are physically isolated not just from your parents, but also from institutions designed to protect you, like child protection services or the police.
When you're living in close quarters, like literally living with your abuser, it's much easier for the abuser to exert power and influence over the victim in such a way that prevents them from seeking help.
This is what's really problematic about boarding schools then is that it's not something where, you know, you can just go in and institute a couple reforms.
This is structurally intrinsic to the nature of a boarding school, that because you are physically isolated from the rest of the world, that is, by design, the whole point of a boarding school, you are much, much less likely to report abuse, and we think that therefore a ban is justified because so many people are put in harm's way by this structural component.
Our third independent point is just sort of a contact theory lens.
Boarding schools are expensive.
They, you know, disproportionately house extremely rich students, and the isolation that is intrinsic to a boarding school really separates them physically from the rest of the world.
We think it's a problem then when, you know, rich children grow up in environments where they don't really come into contact with people of different social classes.
These schools are also disproportionately white, and we think it is equally problematic when white children that are very rich don't ever come into contact with, you know, minorities, or poorest people.
This is a problem because it allows them to shape a world view that is exclusionary of these individuals, because they never grew up with the sort of humanizing aspect of personally knowing someone from a different social class.
They never come to understand the fact that there is, you know, actual equality between individuals.
Classist attitudes and racist attitudes ferment much, much more easily in environments where you're never forced actually, you know, come into contact with someone that is different from you.
Proud to propose.