I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban international adoption.
My first independent point is that the practice mitigates suffering in the developing world.
A lot of the narrative around international adoption specifically ties to this notion that like I as some like rich american I'm going to adopt a you know suffering child in like ghana or sudan, as gov puts the example, and then as such I'm taking them out of poverty and I'm bring them into my home.
We think that while there are certainly some flaws in the way that this is executed, broadly, this is true.
That if you you know are taking children essentially from places where they would have a lock of access to resources, a lack of access to the things necessary to live a happy you know and fruitful life, and as such you are bringing them into a world that has more resources, that has more capacity to you know actually experience these things, we think then that it is important to ensure that you know this practice can continue because it mitigates suffering.
This is especially true in the comparative which I do want to establish here.
We think that the alternative to international adoption is one of two things, one is having a an actual like baby of your own.
We think that's problematic because it's just like sort of bringing a new mouth to feed into the world as opposed to you know meeting the needs of one that is already here.
So on the margins we think of course that international adoption is significantly preferable to having your own kid, and the second alternative articulated by gov is you know adoption within one's own country.
We think though that on the margins of course this is you know less you know less impactful essentially because we believe that the the people largely in the developed world these orphans and these babies are suffering significantly less than those in the developing world.
Our second independent point is essentially black market.
That we think that largely international adoption is something that is heavily demanded and more importantly, is demanded by people with access to lots of capital and other resources you know political networking that sort of thing.
So we think then, that they'll still be able to engage in this practice.
That the black market for international adoption will be able to thrive because the people will have the means to pay essentially for the higher prices that are intrinsic to black markets.
This is the problem of course because I think gov articulates certainly abuses that are intrinsic to international adoption but without any sort of oversight these abuses inevitably get worse you know child kidnapping for example, separation from families.
This isn't going to improve in a world in which the black market reins.
If anything it will become even worse because the few countries that insure some degree of accountability over the international adoption process, will now have no capacity to do so because they're not officially recognizing the practice anyway.
This then is extremely problematic and we think that broadly speaking this is something that we want to avoid and we think that a legal regulated market would be significantly preferable.
Our last independent point relates to choice.
We think that parents insofar as they're the people that you know are going to have to deal with this kid as they grow up are in a position to have a choice over who they want to raise.
We think that there are a number of decisions that we can't really you know meticulously flesh out here but generally parents should have the ability to make that choice.
If they think that there are certain factors like you know whether or not the child is originally from the country things like that, if they think that that will have a meaningful impact on their ability to raise the child and the type of experience they will have in raising the child, we should allow parents to make that choice because they will be extremely impacted by the experience they have bringing up these children.
Proud to oppose.