We're proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should limit the right to self-defense.
I'll model this as essentially getting rid of protections for imperfect self-defense.
So we would only protect self defense if you know basically the threat holds out that it turns out that the person actually was justified you know if they actually wind up being attacked or something like that or if it turns out the person actually did have a weapon we would only basically we wouldn't protect people if it turned out that they had made the wrong call.
So our first independent point is that people have a tendency to misjudge situations, and that giving them legal protections for misjudging that situation can often have drastic consequences.
So people react imperfectly of course when they're under high stress scenarios, especially ones where they believe their lives might be in danger.
Given that they are of course disproportionately likely to act with you know violence or extreme force in self defense.
This is a problem though because there are a lot of factors that go into people's heads about whether or not they're in danger that are not good indicators of whether or not they're in danger.
One particularly good example of this is racial discrimination and how you know people feel that they are just you know less safe around particular races particularly like black and hispanic men.
This is important because that's not actually an indicator of how safe you are, it's just an indicator like you have slightly racist attitudes and that you're going to like take that out on a particular individual.
But so that's a problem of course then is that innocent people are suffering because of someone else's racist attitudes but even more basic things like just the fact that when you're scared you get paranoid means that people are likely to react disproportionately to things that they perceive as threats.
So as a result protections that allow you to you know basically use force even if the threat doesn't hold out essentially allows people or gives them invitation to be trigger happy.
That in turn results in significant harms.
There are obviously stories all over the place of you know trayvon martin for example arm where an individual essentially got trigger happy because they were spooked by things that weren't actually grounds for fearing for one's life and then someone lost their life because of that.
And this is of significant impact right?
Death is obviously pretty bad and we think that that's a significantly more important impact on the right to self-defense in the abstract.
This is an important take away as well, is that the worst case scenario is someone was justified in engaging in self-defense and they'd like die because of it.
You have to compare that though against the fact that if someone acts out in self-defense unjustly and then kills a person, that's also death.
That's the same impact.
So I think at this point then that's a wash in the best interpretation for op.
But I want to go on then to my second independent point which is that you should always be penalized for inflicting needless suffering.
So I think obviously under the situation where you were justified in acting in self-defense like that is like reasonable then for it to be called self-defense because you know you actually were in danger.
The problem then is that when you act unjustly that is that you weren't actually in danger, there's an inherent problem that someone suffer because you acted in self-defense and attacked an individual but no one actually was penalized for that, no one was held accountable for the suffering that was enacted.
This is inherently an issue and I think like some moral hazard argument doesn't actually make up for the fact that somebody genuinely suffered at another's hands without recourse.
Oftentimes if people genuinely fear for their life and are actually confident that this person holds a threat to them, they're going to act regardless of the legal repercussions because they don't want to die.
So I think what actually happens here in terms of the impact calculus is just people that are way more towards the edge of feeling slightly uneasy but like really trigger happy are the ones that will actually change their decision making calculus on our side of the house.
Given that we think we generate less suffering.
Proud to propose.