I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban hunting.
So, our first independent point is biodiversity.
We think that hunting is an important way to ensure that local populations can be kept in check.
Government gives you these arguments to the effect of like: " look, when hunting happens, like we don't have really controls on like how many particular animals of the species are taken out of the population, as such we think that this is like a necessarily volatile way of maintaining steady population levels. "
I think the problem with this though is that the alternative isn't particularly effective either.
Like government sponsored calling programs have a pretty bad track record a, because they're extremely expensive and by extension under funded, but secondly because it is difficult to actually just like figure out how many of something you need to kill before you hit an appropriate population.
Like just the total number that's out there is an estimate to begin with.
So insofar as there's not a particularly effective method of of maintaining biodiversity, we think that: one, hunting has like a decent track record.
It hasn't destroyed much in the way of ecosystems and we think that more modern regulations like hunting seasons have done a pretty good job of keeping these types of abuses in check.
But secondly we think that best case for gov, the alternative is just way more expensive.
Our second independent point is just like the pleasure that humans get from this.
I think at the top of this, it's important to recognize that we should prefer human pleasure to animal pleasure.
The reason for this is that humans are capable of second order thinking.
That is that they have it not only just like baseline preferences like I want to live or I want to drink water when I'm thirsty, but also broader preferences, like I don't know appreciation of art.
We think this in essence creates a hierarchy where humans are more deserving of baseline rights in so far as they are more capable of contextualizing pleasure in a way that is itself of higher utility.
That is because humans experience more pleasure, a greater depth of emotion and a greater range of emotion, that that utility is more worth preserving because there is simply more utility in that interpretation of pleasure.
But even if you don't buy this, we think that it's not particularly displeasurable for animals to be hunted.
And the reason for this is the comparative.
The way animals die in the wild, when they're not hunted to death, is also not particularly pleasant.
Like it's basically you get sick and die slowly, you starve to death and die slowly, or you get hunted by another animal.
Like realistically the trade off here is not one that makes hunting so inhumane for animals.
We don't think that animals are actually getting any sort of like utility boost from not being hunted by humans, and as such the pleasure and enjoyment that humans derive from hunting is probably the more meaningful tipping point in determining whether or not this is a good practice.
Our third and final independent point is backlash.
So we think that the response to a ban on hunting will be swift and negative essentially.
Even like moderate gun rights lobbyists and gun rights supporters are of the opinion that hunting is like something that's reasonable, if for no reason other than most people just don't care that much about animal rights.
Like see like the number of vegetarians that are in this country.
Insofar as that's true then, we think that the general interpretation of this will be seen as like big government run amok, we think there will be decreased confidence in the legislators that passed this, and from a legislative perspective there will probably be a swing back towards more conservative positions on gun ownership.
We think this is problematic in so far as high levels of gun ownership roughly correlate with like high rates of gun violence, once you control for other geographic factors, and as such we think they're going to be a lot of negative externalities of that rightwards swing.
Proud to oppose.