I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should increase immigration into the united states.
So specifically going off of the government model, that is more or less unlimited immigration, I think there are really specific qualms with this that make this a horribly, horribly infeasible plan.
Our first independent point is that this would result in massive overcrowding.
Specifically I think looking at stuff like resource strain is going to be a significant concern under this policy.
And the reason for this is that, like any country, the united states has finite resources.
While we are certainly living within our means at the moment and we are not at resource capacity there is a necessity to ensure that we don't reach that cap.
I think there's really two takes on this, the first being that if you let basically unlimited number of people come into one country there will obviously be lots of people from resource poor countries rushing in to basically a place that has more resources.
This is a problem because we think that obviously, a, there's going to be a bit of an over estimate, that is that people will probably rush in in an effort to be the first movers and take up like financial and natural resources at a rate that quickly outpaces even the the numbers of resources then that are in other countries, but secondly, we think that there is a obligation of the government to protect its own citizens.
So we think that necessarily if this is going to have an adverse effect on people that already live within the united states, that is something that definitely, definitely needs to be taken to an extreme consideration.
Our second independent point is that such a sudden surge in immigration would put massive shock on the system in the united states.
So particularly gov tells you a lot about like the amount of resources that are held by western liberal democracies and why it's important to mitigate suffering around the world by opening up our borders to those who desperately need these resources.
I think the problem though is that the basic quality of life that we take for granted in the united states is predicated on certain things that we only have so much of at this point in time.
Housing is a good example of it.
That there is not that a significant enough of an amount of empty housing in the united states right now to justify bringing in so many people.
The incredible rates of things like homelessness, hunger, dehydration, that would result from such a sudden influx of individuals entering the united states would be catastrophic.
In addition to the ways this would inflict harm upon people currently living in the united states, we don't think the people coming here would be much better off.
This is not just because their personal expectations of the united states would largely be you know disappointing much in the way that this was seen in like the eighteen hundreds with those waves of immigration, we also think that there are like travel agencies that would bring them to the united states who have a particular financial incentive to mislead them about the opportunity held here.
The reality is that despite plentiful resources in the united states it's not that much better than other places in the world unless you have starting capital to access those resources.
Without that capital you don't have much here and if so many people are vying for so few resources it seems unlikely that we'll be able to accommodate such a large influx in immigration.
Our third and final independent point is democratic will.
So while there hasn't been any public pulling on this direct question of whether or not we should just let like millions and millions of new immigrants enter the country there have been public polls conducted on much more conservative questions and the results are more split certainly to the right of this question.
So I think it almost goes without saying then if you move so substantially to the left of this that you will probably find that people aren't wild about it.
And the government's first obligation is, of course, to those that put them in power.
This is the basis of democracy.
And at that point then it seems reasonable to say that if the people don't want it it shouldn't happen proud.
To oppose.