I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory.
Two independent points of analysis.
First, that the procedure is invasive, and second, that the procedure doesn't meaningfully solve for the harms that are pointed out by side government.
On the first point, that the procedure is invasive.
This is true for really three reasons.
First is that it's physically painful.
This is not something that is a pleasant experience.
This involves a lot of machinery, tools, being inserted into a person's body.
This is a lot of medical procedures that are actually causing physical harm.
Even if you are weighing this against lives, this is something worth considering, I'll explain the weighing mechanism in a bit.
Second is the emotional trauma associated with this.
We think one, the testing procedure itself creates an emotional trauma that is associated with the belief that oh wait, this is something that really might happen, like it might have this thing, and in situations where the test comes negative, that is still a trauma that they had to deal with while they were waiting on the test results.
This is especially true for people who are pregnant and have like significant changes in their hormones, that mean that they are a lot more susceptible to these types of like emotional swings that make it a lot more traumatic for them to experience.
And thirdly is that the literal sexual nature of the procedure creates this extreme discomfort that is associated with the patient.
Recognize that this is something that even if like you or I think it is silly to be uncomfortable about, large amounts of people are genuinely deeply uncomfortable with these types of procedures, and forcing them to undergo it represents a significant psychological harm.
So, these might sound petty when compared to the types of harms that are discussed on side government.
Side government talks relentlessly about saving lives and things like that.
I think even if you take the best version of their arguments though, you still have to multiply these harms out by the scale, that is literally every pregnant woman in the country, and weigh that against the minimal amount of lives saved on their side of the house.
Like this might be an unpopular thing to say, but I think it is just worth recognizing that if you cause significant pain and harm and suffering and psychological damage on tens of millions of women, and you save like two lives, I just don't think that's a meaningful trade-off, and I think this is a weighing that was lost on side government.
Our second independent point is that side government really doesn't solve for these lives, and that that small impact probably isn't even articulated on their side of the house.
So, recognize that the actual response to finding out your kid is going to have x disorder is pretty minimal.
Because it's generally not like you can cure these things, right?
Like I think the outcome of these tests is generally like oh, cool, she'll have cystic fibrosis.
The hospital was equipped to deal with that anyway, like even if you found out at the point of birth, the hospital has tons of equipment to deal with this type of thing, so it's not like there's any meaningful difference between finding out now and then.
I think the meaningful difference is in two ways, both of which skew to side opposition.
The first is that the emotional trauma spent worrying in the interim is something that weighs on the person psyche, and we would prefer you just not stress in that interim if that's the only meaningful difference, but secondly is that the false positives, that are inevitable on their side of the house because this is a medical testing, tests have false positives, mean that you're going to spend a lot of money securing resources preemptively for something that you don't wind up actually needing to do, right?
Like this is always used in analyses of like terrorism where it's like okay, but if like sure you might have like a really high success rate in your analysis, but it's such a small percentage of the population has the like indicator in the first place, then you wind up with a lot more false positives than you do actual like correct diagnoses.
That means that you're going to waste a lot of resources scrambling for what you need to deal with this thing that doesn't actually exist.
That damage probably outweighs with minimal impact that they get on their side of the house.
Proud to oppose.