I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban casinos.
Three independent points, first is choice.
A lot of what gov starts off their speech with concerns the notion that casinos are inherently abusive and manipulative in their advertising.
I think this however is a blatant misrepresentation of the average clientele of casinos.
People recognize that the house always wins.
That phrase itself is a cliche.
Generally speaking, the people that go to casinos don't go there with the intent of becoming millionaires.
Rather they go there because they find casinos to be fun.
I think this is important for two reasons then.
The first is that there are legitimate justifications, such as fun, for going to casinos that don't involve thinking you're going to become a millionaire.
That alone means that people should, you know, be able to go to this thing because there's a legitimate purpose.
But second, is that we think that the consent into being in a casino and the potential harms that it incurs are informed.
People recognize that there are risks involved with gambling.
That is the nature of gambling.
And we don't think that people often walk into casinos when without being cognizant of those problems.
We'll get more into this later but even if there are horribly abusive practices pursued by casinos, we think that generally speaking in the status quo we have the capacity to regulate those practices and a world with a ban will actually result in much worse harms in terms of abusive practices.
Our second independent point is employment and specifically the benefits the communities bring to the communities that they are in.
Are the benefits they bring to the communities.
So specifically gov brings up the example of the wynn casino in boston.
I think the problem here is that gov does a good job of telling you why they don't bring a lot of direct benefits in terms of tourism to communities, that's fair.
But they don't do a very good job of explaining the downsides to you.
Specifically their arguments are like utilities, which is a pretty minimal impact honestly, and secondly that they take the work force.
This is a fundamental misunderstanding.
Casinos don't take work forces because often the primary driver for building a casino in terms of political will is that a region is experiencing severe under employment.
Upstate new york for example, is building several casinos because the area has like thirty percent unemployment.
Usually then casinos then are used as leverage to respond to horrifyingly low employment rates and a need to create new jobs in the area.
Even if these jobs are low paying they are preferable to outright unemployment and as such that is a direct benefit that they bring to communities.
Even if the visitors aren't going out and frequenting local shops this is still a net benefit.
Our third oh and just briefly on that top, even if it doesn't work for every community that doesn't mean you should ban it, right?
Like individual communities can make their own decisions on whether or not this is something they want and as such the zoning law allows them to proactively make that decision for themselves.
Our third independent point is that underground casinos happen on their side of the house and they're significantly worse.
So I think you can look to like the twenties and even parts of the thirties in the united states as an example of like when underground crap games and things like that essentially represented what could be seen as a sort of casino.
If you ban casinos in broadly that sort of organized gambling these things are likely to make a comeback.
Largely because people with like gambling addictions for example just want to do this sort of thing and they're going to pursue illegal means to do so if necessary.
This is a problem then because for all the hand wringing the gov can do about how casinos facilitate addiction, it's much worse when this happens underground in a capacity that isn't possible to regulate.
We think that for what you lose in scope you easily make up for on their side of the house in a lack of ability to intervene in serious gambling addictions and a lack of ability to put restrictions on casinos that facilitate that sort of behavior.
Proud to oppose.