I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should reject big government.
Two independent points, but first a quick overview about the way the government so I think it's important to note that there was a very specific lens that gov analyzed this through.
Basically just that it's about federal versus local and you should just prefer local government.
I think that is a component of this debate but I think realistically it's about something much more significant as well, that is the actual size of government whether or not government enacts onerous regulations upon businesses and things like that or at least perceived to be onerous, you know whether or not it spends lots of money on social programs.
I think that is like a significant portion of this debate that needs to be analyzed so I'm going to do this in two ways.
First is that I am going to talk about the capacity to help the disenabled through larger spending programs and through larger size of the individual levels of government and second I'm also going to talk about why it is better to house these programs and how's this decision making power at the federal level.
First our capacity to help.
I think there's four reasons why expanding spending at a federal level creates a better government or expending funding in general.
First is that there is a larger scale that enables more resources to come through the system.
So you can just spend more on your welfare programs, you can spend more on whatever thing it is that the government does that you enjoy by having that more money flowing through the coffers.
Second is that you have more capacity to redistribute wealth so for example it is you know bad when a lot of the wealth in a country is concentrated into a few hands at the very top of that country meaning it's important then for governments to have the capacity to redistribute that wealth to an extent through things like social spending programs and welfare programs, things like that.
Third, regulations that are enacted by big government protect vulnerable individuals.
This is everything ranging from really obvious stuff like food regulations like you can't put like rat poison in oatmeal or whatever, all the way down to smaller things like labeling or you know insuring that signs on roads actually are done properly and have some level of universality across states.
I think these regulations are really important to protecting people that don't generally have access to large amounts of information on the specific industry, but are also even to knowledgeable people just important to have that sort of standardization that can ensure that no one is taking risks when they engage in a certain product if it's not necessary.
Fourth is that more power leads to more enforcement.
So often the thing that state and local governments are hobbled by isn't you know the capacity to make a rule it's the capacity to enforce that rule.
You know a municipality can say you know no money laundering but a municipality doesn't have the capacity to actually crack down on money laundering because they don't have the high-tech you know research and all that that you know the FBI does.
This is important then to have that sort of large spending and have that sort of you know the capacity to actually do something about it because if you defund the federal government and say oh no we want small government then you're just going to get rid of the capacity to actually crackdown on these things.
So our second independent point is that it is better to have things at the federal level than the state or local level.
First is scale.
So just you know having things housed at the federal level just you know generally puts more resources in one room.
These people can play off of each other better like with the FBI it just when it happens at the top level it is more capable of happening.
Second is increased scrutiny on that level decreases corruption and special interests.
So gov actually specifically tells you that it's bad that the media scrutinizes the federal level because it hobbles their capacity to make decisions at a rapid rate.
That's a problem.
I think it's actually really important to have that scrutiny because at the state and local levels this is often an issue where like massachusetts the last three or four speakers of the house have gone to jail for corruption charges.
These things are extremely common at local levels and they are are huge issue.
We think that generally speaking housing important decision making capacity at the federal level solves for this.
Third is that a big central government can hold abuses of local government so when like places in the deep south for example restrict voting rights, if you house all the enforcement capacity in those local governments, they can run rampant.
Proud to oppose.