I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion, that we should abolish zoos.
Two independent points: first, animal rights, and second, poor resource use.
On the first point, of animal rights.
First animal rights exist, right?
Like, they experience pain and pleasure, and at the most fundamental level, that's, I think, where we derive whether or not something has moral worth.
Whether or not it is capable of saying: x is bad, and y is good.
Why is the truth, then?
I think, generally, these other standards, like whether or not they are self aware, or they're sentient, or intelligent, or things like that, are at best inappropriately or inconsistently applied.
For example, we allow really unintelligent people to have rights.
I just don't think that, generally speaking, this argument is applied in such a way that's like: oh well, like, really unintelligent people have less rights than really intelligent people.
Like, generally speaking, I think the way that we just understand, whether or not something should have rights should just be, like, can it experience pain, and if so it's probably a good idea to minimize the amount of pain, that the thing experiences.
So, what exactly is the pain, then, that animals have to experience, that's intrinsic to zoos?
Lots of things really.
So, cages are a good example, like even if they're not literally kept to the cage, they're kept in a amount of space, restricted from what they're, generally like, their natural habitat would be, that has like a lot of pretty profound impacts on the animal.
It can induce depression, it can make them feel anxious, it can even make them like incapable of like living properly, like they just need a certain amount of space to be able to stay active, and run around, and like maintain their muscular strength, things like that.
Second, there's a lot of fear intrinsic to being stared at all day by humans, and like people tapping on glass, and things like that.
Like generally animals don't interpret these, like, thousands of humans looking at them on a daily basis as friends.
Generally animals see these as threats, like, these like thousands and thousands of moving things, that are lurking at the edge of your habitat all the time.
I think, generally speaking, that creates like a pretty substantial amount of fear in the animal, that is you know leaves something to be desired.
And third is underfeeding, like zoos, at the end of the day, are like these really profit oriented entities.
They basically sit down, they crunch the numbers, and they're like: okay, what can we afford to feed the animals these days?
Because generally speaking, animals like to eat a lot, when they're in the wild.
If they have like a surplus, they'll take that opportunity.
The problem is that zoos never really have an incentive to give them a surplus, and that really bad, right?
Like the financial incentive is just to give them whatever the bare minimum is, to ensure that they can keep being cute, and that the humans will show up to look at them.
So I think, generally speaking, these animals go through a lot of abuses, and a lot of pain when they're in zoos, and that intrinsically is something that we should avoid, because the animals have an affirmative right to not experience pain.
And on the second point, that it's a poor use of resources.
Zoos take up a lot of land, and they take up a lot of water, like, filling the pools, giving water to the animals, that sort of thing.
The problem is that they're generally in the middle of cities, and land shortages, in cities these days, are a serious issue.
They drive up housing prices, they drive down the number of amenities that a city can have, you know like, that's less green space, even in the best interpretation, but when it's less housing, like that creates a serious issue for people.
That means that housing prices go up, that means there's more people who are homeless, or there's just less people they can live in the city, which even then, means that wages go down, because there's less labor that's actually feasible within the cities, so that companies leave, like, there's a lot of externalities that are generated, by the lack of adequate space in a city, and we think zoos are just a poor use of that space, given they generate active harm anyway.
Proud to propose.