I'm proud to stand on proposition of today's motion that we should abandon television.
The battle is going to be that we should just pursue what is the natural progression of the entertainment industry in transition over to internet based streaming.
So what we would say is that in the info slide there is described this idea of like television is like this rigid thing, there is a monitor, a screen, you watch the screen, that's how you get your whatever it is that you're watching.
We would transition to more flexible services like , you know, mobile device streaming, laptop streaming, whatever it is.
But we would say generally speaking, internet would become the medium that we would transition to if we were to abandon television.
Three independent points as to why this would be a good thing.
First, that it would lead to better news, second, that it would lead to better entertainment, and third, that it would lead to better health.
So first, on news.
We would say that television news historically was the way that a lot of people got their news, the twenty four hour news cycle was initiated by television, so it's unlikely that this would change through internet, and I think the fact that a lot of people currently consume their news through the internet is demonstrating the fact that the twenty four hour news cycle will continue.
There are three areas that in which news is better accessed or is portrayed better on the internet.
First is the reach, that the internet is more accessible to a larger number of people, there is less sort of this like like factional territorialism with local news channels and things like that, so individual channels reach a larger number of people.
Second is that there are more sources, so you can get things like anything from like far right sites to really far left sites, there are tons of centrist sites, things like vox media or the atlantic or whatever, that generally would not be reachable by television, because there just wasn't as large of an audience at any given point in time to justify so many diverse viewpoints, this is now accessible through the internet.
And third is better fact checking, that organizations like politico and things like that are more capable of checking facts in real time, because they have the resources through the internet and through things like google and large internet databases to pursue that fact checking more quickly, you can also just like see the fact checking on site, like people can literally comment this in the post like, hey here's this link to this like you know a politifact article that like disputes this thing that's in a great part of the article.
Second is entertainment.
So three ways in which entertainment is improved in internet transmission.
First is that it's a less rigid medium which gives creators more flexibility to operate with under the item.
Second is wider availability, so again this is just a broader audience, more people will be accessing your thing, that means more money pumping into the entertainment industry, and as a result that means more opportunities for people to create, and third is less barriers to entry.
So I think youtube is like a really good example of this, wherein there isn't like this really difficult thing to leap, you don't have to be in the industry for like tons and tons of time to get your television access, like if the generous interpretation of television as an accessible medium is like adult swim or it's like new artists can work in that space, I think like youtube is always going to beat that out, and other you know easily accessible mediums by which people can sort of gain popularity.
Think vine for example has a good history of like promoting a lot of comedians that normally wouldn't have had such easy access, that again leads to more diversity in viewpoints within the entertainment industry.
Our third independent point is health.
I think there's two ways in which TV mitigates or harms your health.
First is just like the like health effects of staring at these things for a long time, like the LED screens and things just have like ocular effects that are not as severe with laptops and mobile screens, because they are smaller and because they are like designed in just a better way.
But secondly is the like sitting down for long stretches of time effect, like this is referred to as like being a couch potato sometimes, that's less likely to happen when a large percentage of your media is being consumed on mobile devices though, like people could walk around and watch TV, so we think the health benefits are less or the health harms are less severe in a world where internet is the predominant medium.
Proud to propose.