I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should subsidize stem cell research.
So with subsidizing the research we would just say you know the government should put some amount of money towards this.
We would be willing to fund private sector companies that seem reliable.
Standard bidding process the way most subsidies work like, solar subsidies that sort of thing.
We take a look at companies that apply for the subsidies in then say okay these are the ones that are probably going to do the most good.
So two independent points: first that developments in this field would alleviate massive amounts of suffering and second that realistically the claim that these are you know human beings that we are killing to harvest these stem cells are just ridiculous claims that don't have much merit to them.
So on the first point regarding the decrease and suffering.
I think it's important to note that the stem cells are an incredibly promising scientific breakthrough.
They have the capacity to solve millions of deaths, alleviate horrible pain with the types of developments that would come.
Things like reconstructing organs or other tissue simply from this one material.
Like I think it's worth recognizing that even if stem cells turn out to be crazy expensive to produce, that's still the technology we literally just don't have right now.
This is an incredible breakthrough in our capacity to deal with extremely, extremely painful illnesses and extremely just unpreventable deaths.
Like just the technology is so far beyond anything we can do with machinery or vaccines or anything of that sort, that it would be like a renaissance in our medical capacity.
It would be so far beyond anything that we had previously done in this field.
So I think given the raw magnitude of lives saved in the long term through this breakthrough, it's worth recognizing that even in the short term, if you value those embryos at a very high rate, you know at equal to human life basically, and say I don't know we're going to have to harvest like a lot of these things to get these types of breakthroughs, the long term lives you are saving probably outweigh that right?
Like in the next, you know, however many years, if you save a couple hundred thousand lives through this technology and only had to harvest like a thousand embryos, like that is a very reasonable trade off.
But let's take the hard line, let's assume that you do think they're human.
So on our second p er let's assume that you don't think that trade off make sense if they are not if they are human.
This brings me to the second point, that they aren't human, that that's a very false equivalence.
Recognize that I think a very baseline understanding of humanity is that they have to be self aware.
That you have to be cognizant of yourself as an individual in order to qualify as human.
Right?
This is obviously not something that applies to these embryos.
They don't have brains, they don't have any capacity to process thought, never mind like very higher order thinking like self awareness.
But even if you take a broader definition of what has rights, just say all life.
Like like I don't know maybe you're an animal activist or something like that.
They don't even have a pain, pleasure trade off or any capacity to feel pain or pleasure because they don't have a brain or a nervous system.
They don't have preferences and I think that, if nothing else, is the baseline qualifier for whether or not something has rights.
Like even bacteria, based on their actions, like you can see that there are things that they want to happen to them and things that they don't want to happen to them.
They're in some capacity capable of like wanting things.
Embryos don't have that capacity because they don't have like brains or anything that makes decisions for them.
It's just this automatic chemical reaction that eventually develops into a human.
Given that, I don't think it's reasonable to allocate these embryos rights.
Proud to propose.