I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the monarchy.
Our first independent point is the cultural significance of this institution.
A lot of people in constitutional monarchies are quite fond of the monarchy.
This is almost you know self-evident given that the monarchy is still around and that people you know still express their support for it openly and in a lot of these countries the monarchy is on balance something that most people get behind.
I think first from a principle perspective government should look the way that people want them to.
So just in terms of the raw popular demand, it make sense to prefer a form of government that is more reflective of the desires of individuals, and if individuals desire a monarchy then they should get a monarchy.
But we think even beyond this, a significant portion of a lot of these countries in the commonwealth their culture is tied up in this monarchy.
That is it's not like the monarchy is actively making decisions anymore, so the arguments about like colonial legacy and that sort of thing don't seem to add up into tangible harm.
But if people decide that this is an intrinsic portion of their culture and this is something that they deeply respect and want to preserve, then they should have the right to do so.
We think that cultural relics that don't particularly harm individuals in the status quo are perfectly reasonable to preserve, not just because of their popular demand but also for the sake of ensuring that the cultural continuity of that country is continued in such a way that is deemed preferable to the individuals existing within that culture.
Our second independent point relates to the cost of monarchy, and that particularly it is low.
So gov makes a lot of you know basically expresses a lot of concerns with the costs that monarchies have onto the taxpayers and specifically uses the phrase that we're like subsidizing a family of billionaires.
This is disingenuous though because the majority of funding for the monarchy actually stems from private investment funds held by the monarchy itself, so the estate largely funds itself through returns on investments and the actual taxpayer cost is quite quite low.
Like we're talking like cents per person per year.
At that point that we think one, that mere cost to something that is completely reasonable for individuals if they're consenting into it anyway to just pay but secondly, we think that the investment returns on that fund are really important because right now their private money is funding these cultural institutions, things like say buckingham palace.
However, if you were to transfer all that money over to private ownership and have those cultural institutions lay in the public hand, then the taxpayer would have to foot the bill.
It actually then becomes more expensive for taxpayers if you were to get rid of the monarchy because you transfer responsibility for upkeep payments from that private investment fund over to the public coffers.
So we think then that it's actually beneficial to ensure that these private investment funds are going to continue picking up the bill for upkeep at these institutions.
Our third and final independent point is faith in government.
We think that the cultural significance afforded to the monarchy gives them a higher stance in public discourse, that they're often seen above the political fray and fracas associated with partisan governments in the modern day and as a result people often have a lot of faith in them.
We think that this faith is unique to the monarchy and it allows people to have some degree of confidence in their governing structure, something that is often rarer in non-monarchy countries.
Take the united states for example, where partisanship is often resulting in a large amount of dissatisfaction with the government itself and the institutions that are intrinsic to it.
We think the people are much more likely to discuss things like revolutionary overthrow and even just anti-government tendencies in opposition like violent protests in a world where they are actually dissatisfied with the notion of the government itself, rather than individual actors in that government.
The unifying force of the monarchy allows for people to have faith in the institutions of government even if they are particularly dissatisfied with particular individuals and as a result we think that makes for a more stable country.
Proud to oppose.