I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should fight global warming.
Gov takes a pretty hard line here in saying that we should just stop everything that we're doing right now that might contribute to global warming and instead refocus all of our effort on mitigation of the effects of global warming.
So this is a problem.
I think it's important to recognize really two things.
The first is that the current trajectory of global warming, if you believe these climate models, is that pretty much all of the damage has already been done, that if we, you know, shut up shop right now and stopped expelling all pollutants, that really we would not make a meaningful impact on the progress of global warming.
This is something that developed from a long history of expelling pollutants, and because there is a delay on the impact, much of what's going to happen is already doomed to happen.
So, I think that there's a significant, then, problem with the sort of doom and gloom scenario put forward that if you think that this sort of like doom and gloom scenario is true, it's probably not avoidable.
But this brings me into my first point that I don't think that the science on this is quite clear enough to sort of justify this doom and gloom scenario.
Even a mitigated version of it where this is something preventable, the reality is that a lot of , you know, climate science has been commissioned by government actors with political incentives to , you know, commission this sort of stuff.
And I think that there are particularly examples throughout history of political actors commissioning this sort of work in order to ensure that there would be some sort of political incentive for reelection.
Wars are a common example.
I don't think that there's any reason then to believe that, you know, science isn't just a concoction of a political incentive.
Our second independent though is that there are economic harms intrinsic to the policy suggested by side government and that that actually even if you buy then the climate models that they put forward, really hurts our ability to actually respond properly.
I think there's two things under the economic harms, but first I want to establish what those harms look like.
When you say no more oil, no more coal, no more gas, what you essentially say is no more economy.
Like you need these types of fuel to actually run the basic day-to-day operations of everything we do in the world.
, you know, heating our homes, moving our vehicles, all that sort of stuff.
The first impact then under why under these economic harms is just the present suffering this generates.
Like if you tell municipalities that they can't heat like homes, tons of people die of like freezing to death.
Tons of people die of like lack of access to basic resources because they couldn't be shipped out properly.
Like if you're saying that our entire energy infrastructure now has to be predicated on the limited access to green technology that we have, you know, the renewable resources in certain areas, then you're really condemning a lot of people, particularly people in rural remote areas, to a slow and painful death.
But our second problem with this is that you actually decrease our ability to research these things properly.
Most green tech research now comes out of companies like exxon mobil, because these companies recognize that in the long term, if fossil fuels are finite, they need to actually transition to some other form of making money.
So there's a lot of research for things like solar and wind tech coming out of these firms.
But if you tell these firms they have to shut down, the research stops.
That means that not only do you not get the technology needed to transfer to a sort of green earth in the long term, you also don't get proper research on mitigation techniques that would actually help us fight global warming.
Given that, this extreme stance seems significantly ill-equipped to prepare for global warming, and the status quo seems significantly better prepared.
Proud to oppose.