I'm proud to support the motion that we should institute a carbon tax.
Three independent points, first is that this is a fair policy.
We think that when a action such as emitting carbon from a smokestack results in externalities or harms that are borne by people who did not instigate said action, there is an inherent unfairness to this.
That if I you know pollute the atmosphere with CO two and other people have say breathing problems because I am polluting the atmosphere with CO two or other people for that matter are experiencing any number of side effects associated with climate change, this is inherently unfair.
We think then that taxing or financially penalizing polluters is a way to rebalance the scales to enact justice upon individuals who have caused harm to others.
We especially think this is important because it ensures that it is more or less the only feasible way to that justice.
You often can't hold individual people liable because corporations are sort of these you know sprawling messes of individual responsibility being diluted across large pools of people, so we think then that taxing just the corporation itself is the most effective way to ensure that in some capacity the people responsible for an injustice are held to account.
Our second independent point though is that this actually just decreases emissions that by taxing the thing that results in externalities or harms on society you decrease the rate at which people do that.
This is pretty straight forward I mean people will stop doing a thing if you're financially penalizing them for it, but I think at a lot more of a fundamental level this is about what is cost effective in the energy industry.
The reason why fossil fuels like coal or gas are so popular isn't because you know energy executives are just sadistic it's because they're cheap.
We think then that by raising the price of cheap fossil fuels we just make it more cost effective for people to turn to renewable energies or at least lower polluting amounts of energy.
At that point then we also think that this is unlikely to have loopholes because we are directly tying the taxation to the rate at which you pollute.
So you know for example we incentivize people to turn to carbon capture storage technology as well because eventhough it's still based on fossil fuels the amount of polluting is lesser and we obviously are fine with this.
What we want fundamentally is to make the act of polluting expensive and that's what a carbon tax does.
Our third and final independent point though is redirection of funds.
So, all else aside, assuming this policy just fails the worst case scenario is that we just raise a lot of money through the taxes that can then be used for other things.
Generally what this looks like in most countries that talk about or have implemented a carbon tax is it is put towards subsidies for green energy or things like that.
We think then that this is important for two reasons.
First is that you can use these funds for just things that are objectively good things like subsidizing green energy, things that you know basically help fight global warming, help fight pollution, help mitigate all the harms of the externalities that I explained earlier in this speech.
But secondly it's important because I think the main argument that opposition is going to make here is that a carbon tax increases the cost of energy for people and that that in turn increases the cost of living in your country.
The problem then is that when you can use the revenue from this tax to subsidize green energy, we think that lowers the cost of energy, that is that we put that money into something else and we then lower the cost of energy for people that are on a solar-based grid or a hydroelectric grid.
As such we think the impact on individuals or consumers is going to be significantly lesser because we can simply shift the distribution of who benefits from cheap energy from the people who are reliant on coal to the people who are reliant on solar and things like that.
Proud to support.