I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce year round schooling.
Our first independent point is that there is an educational issue with getting rid of a summer break.
So much in the same way that people have trouble paying attention to like an individual speech or lecture for a prolonged amount of time we think that there is generally a inability to you know actually maintain the sort of focus and like day to day readiness that's important for schooling on a year round basis.
Gov's proposition is to replace the long break with a series of smaller breaks that are distributed more less evenly throughout the year.
This we think is a problem because we do think that there is a need just like sort of from a mental capacity perspective to actually have that significant break in the middle and really just sort of like unload yourself of the burden that's associated with schooling.
Particularly given the fact that school is often seen as something that is you know quite stressful, puts a lot of pressure on individuals, we think there's a need for just a prolonged period where that weight isn't on you, where it's not even particularly imminent, where you can just, for the next few months, not have to worry about these sorts of things.
This leads me into my second point, that there is an emotional component to this as well.
That in that same vein and from that same perspective it's important to recognize that there is you know undue stress and undue unhappiness frankly associated with long periods of schooling.
And relieving children from that stress is important to ensuring their you know emotional well being throughout the school year.
This you know doesn't just have academic consequences.
I think gov really hangs their hat on the academic aspect of this so while that stress and that burden certainly gets in the way of the academic aspect I think there are other values that need to be discussed in this debate too you know from an emotional component making sure that children you know experience good mental health in early age particularly is something that's of extreme importance and really you know not providing them with that sort of break from the the stress that's associated with schooling could have really significant effects on their mental health.
Our third independent point is really just the cultural aspect of this.
So we think that you know particularly in the west, like in america for example, there is a very you know a culturally significant aspect to summer break.
This is something that's really ingrained into you know our country, this is something that we care very deeply about and it's something that is a formative experience in a lot of our early lives.
You know having summer break is a time when we you know really experience the world in ways that can't just be demonstrated to us through the classroom.
I know a lot of us even you know you know some families will obviously you know go on vacation, see other parts of the world, you know some kids will go to summer camp and experience that type of life, even you know kids that don't have those opportunities just having the ability to, at a point in your life, you know have that sense of freedom that's associated with summer break, have that ability to just sort of do as you please for a long period of time, that's really important in our upbringing and really important to us you know being able to develop as individuals.
Having that degree of freedom really allows us to develop a sense of self and a sense of you know what the world is like outside of school.
And if you get rid of that by just replacing it with smaller breaks I think you have less capacity to have those important learning experiences not just because of the you know the mental component that's associated with knowing that school is you know coming back just on the horizon, but also associated with the fact that you know blocking out long periods of time to do these types of things just isn't an option when you have such short breaks.
Proud to propose er oppose.