I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should fight global warming.
Two independent points: first, that global warming poses an existential threat to humanity and second, even if you buy climate denying science, even if you buy that this is not a threat, the externalities generated by this effort will be worth the fight alone.
So first just a model.
I'll say here that what we want to do is dedicate pretty much as much capital and as much of our resources as we really feasibly can to fighting global warming.
That we would endorse a world where pretty much everything stops and the primary focus of every government just becomes look, we need to stop this.
We'll keep reasonable protections in place for baseline things like insuring like you know people have access to food and water and things like that, but the primary directive of every government in the world under our world would become to combat global warming, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and to combat the other externalities that have been generated by rising global temperatures.
So on my first independent point: that it opposes an existential threat.
There are a lot of things that are going to happen as a result of global warming.
First, rising temperatures just create like less habitable situations for a lot of people that are on the border line.
People in deserts for example, have to deal with less habitable living conditions.
There are crop deaths associated with those rising temperatures that in borderline areas, large amounts of crops will die out and this will lead to huge amounts of food insecurity.
Third, mass extinction that is derivative of decreased animal life and decreased animal habitability when temperatures have risen.
Recognize that that mass extinction means a not just a harm in the food supply for humans, but also if you buy that animals have any rights whatsoever, that mass extinction is a harm in and of itself.
Thirdly, weather changes that when there are changes in temperature globally and when there are changes in sea levels and things like that, this leads to more hurricanes, this leads to more natural disasters.
That in turn results in a huge amounts of suffering especially along coastal towns, but also in areas affected by increase instances of tornadoes and things like that.
Fifth, I believe, is smog.
So when we pollute lots of things, then that means that the air is significantly dirtier, harder to breathe.
That means not just small things like more asthma, that also means things like cancer and other things that are airborne based illnesses and basic maladies that significantly affect quality of life.
Sixth, rising sea levels that when global temperatures increase, ice caps melt, sea levels go up.
That means flooding of coastal towns, that means problems with fishing, that means problems with scientific research in the north and south poles.
That also contributes to mass extinction, for things that live in the north and south poles.
Given the wide array in which global warming poses an existential threat to humanity, and at a bare minimum, will inflict huge amounts of suffering, I think it is extremely reasonable for us to dedicate large amounts of resources to this fight.
It is extremely reasonable for us to prioritize this above basically everything else.
But let's say you don't buy that.
Our second independent point is that even if the climate science is fake, even if this is like this ridiculous thing that global warming is not happening and it's all a myth, the externalities of pursuing this policy are still pretty good.
Like you invest in lots of green energy, and in the long term your energy costs go down because it's renewable and you don't have to like extract oil from the ground, instead you just get solar power which is like perfectly renewable.
You get wind power, things like that.
But also you get cleaner air.
Because that smog pollution?
That's observable.
That's obviously happening.
That is clearly going to continue happening if we continue polluting the air and all those externalities are going to carry over no matter what.
Proud to propose.