I'm proud to support the motion that we should prohibit unisex bathrooms.
So, two independent points: first is the cost of constructing unisex bathrooms.
So, if you look at a unisex bathroom, they're pretty large.
Like there's a lot of empty space in there, and then on top of all the sort of space you're using up for this like one toilet, there's a lot of equipment associated with it.
So like a lot of rails and like special flushing mechanisms and like emergency panic buttons and things like that.
We think that when a like building constructor, whatever, is thinking about like: " okay what's going to go into the cost of constructing this? "
, unisex bathrooms create a lot of deadweight.
You could build significantly more stalls in bathrooms, or just dedicate that space to other things in the project, if you didn't have to worry about creating unisex bathrooms.
Whether that be through like personal choice or just like pressure from outside groups or anything like that.
So we think if we prohibit these expressly, that we get rid of that sort of decision making process for the constructor.
That they don't have to worry about that and as such are free to make the most cost effective building that they want to.
That in turn means a couple things: first we think that this creates a sort of payoff relative to the people who would be occupying or using that building otherwise, you know whether this is say a university building or an apartment building or whatever it is.
But secondly in as such those like that money is transferred off to them and they don't have to worry about that deadweight being constructed and things like tuition costs or like rents or whatever.
But secondly, we think it increases the functionality of the building.
That say if you decide to transfer that space from the unisex bathroom, often to making just like a larger general use bathroom, you reduce like waiting times or things like that and increase the quality of life standards associated with that building.
So generally then we think that this unisex bathroom is a lot of deadweight that is you know sort of being inflicted on the many for the sake of a very small minority of people.
Our second independent point though is that even if you buy all the stuff that op is going to say about how this is like rights facilitative and the people need this, I think the worst case scenario here is that because of how like comically over the top this policy is, it creates an excellent rallying point for the left.
So what we mean by this is that a lot of the time when like really ridiculous things are passed, like say like the bathroom ban in north carolina, it becomes a sort of like a rallying cry for people on the left to say like: " wow.
That's really silly.
Like we should fight this. "
And then because you draw people into activism against this particular policy, it winds up sort of bleeding over into affiliation with other groups.
So someone that say might not have been particularly active in the fight against like you know backwards policies on immigration for example, might now be drawn into that because of the connections that they established while they were fighting this bathroom bill.
We think that that if you buy ops arguments about how this is really silly and you shouldn't do it, the worst case scenario then is a political swell for the left, that spills over into benefits for lots of other fights, like say immigration or say other related LGBTQ things, such as like marriage equality or whatever.
Given that then, we think that regardless of your interpretation of the merits of the policy itself, the endpoint results of the policy are likely to be positive.
Proud to propose.