I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban single sex schools.
My first independent point is that there is a religious justification for these institutions.
Certain religious you know religious beliefs , particularly ultra orthodox beliefs, in most major religions so you know this is prevalent in far right like catholic views, also this is prevalent in a lot of like jewish faiths like particularly in orthodox judaism, there is a religious doctrine that says that there is a need to basically have single sex schools and a lack of interaction between men and women particularly at a young age.
I think then the reason why we prefer to protect these religious rights is for really simply the reason that there isn't an objective standard of the good life.
That it is insofar as our our morals and our principles are based on the societies in which we are raised, it is unreasonable for essentially one culture to impose their perceived objective standard of what is just onto another culture.
As such we think then it is necessary to preserve the integrity or the right rather of particular religions to raise children the way that they best see fit, insofar as it is particularly unjust for governments to mandate to individual religions that their way of life is inappropriate or unjust.
Our second independent point is that single sex schools can solve for the confidence gap.
So gov tries to preempt this essentially by saying, you know proponents of this policy will say that this allows you know women to take leadership roles in ways that normally wouldn't be possible in coed schools but this doesn't prepare them for the real world.
I think so the the real world, notice something I'll get into in the next point, but I do just want to note here that this is a good thing.
That like when you allow people you know particularly oppressed individuals like women to take leadership roles at an early age in a way where misogynistic norms are not affecting them, you really have two effects.
One is that from an early age they are not indoctrinated by the misogynist principles that often dictate the outside world.
It is fundamentally good to tell women at an early age you know you can be a CEO, you can be you know whatever it is that you want to be, without having to worry about the misogynistic norms that are often present in coed schools to dictate those standards to them.
So then this fundamentally, I think, is absurd then to say that it is uniquely bad when they are given these opportunities at a young age but also just even protecting women from sort of like the misogynistic impulses that are present in coed schools, so this is where the confidence gap comes in, is that often women like young women will be unwilling to you know really stand up and ask for leadership positions or even just do simple things like raising their hand in class on the basis that there is these this these norms essentially that men are you know more intelligent and more in depth than women.
This is a problem then and we think that if we allow women to internalize these norms at a particularly young age this is an issue.
So our third independent point is that essentially it is okay to allow school to be a bubble.
A lot of what government tells you is that coed schools aren't representative of the real world.
There's two problems with this: the first is that you know you get access to the real world outside of school.
You know when you're out on the street playing with your friends, when you're at home with your family, like there are ways in which you can access like real world dynamics outside of school.
But I think, generally speaking, we want school to be a bit of a bubble, an isolation from the norms and practices that make you know the real everyday world not a particularly great place to learn things, like academics.
So given that then, I think we want school to be as unrepresentative of the real world as possible because you don't just like go out on the street and learn like english literature or math or things like that.
We want this to be a bit of a petri dish, something that isn't you know particularly representative of the world that we generally operate in so that students can really focus on their academics.
For these reasons proud to oppose.