I'm proud to stand in opposition of this motion, that we should do more to combat climate change.
So, I think really two things under this.
First, it's important to recognize that if climate change is not something that's human caused, then that's something that we, then, don't really have much control over.
I don't think it makes sense to pour lots of resources into fighting something, that we don't have particularly control over.
But secondly, even if climate change is something that's human caused, I'll contend that this is something that we don't have much control over, because, if we buy the arguments the gov presents, then this is probably past the point of return, that if we buy into the gloom and doom scenario, this isn't something that we can meaningfully change.
So, those are the two independent points, first that it's not human caused, and secondly that, even if it is human caused, there is little to no probability of meaningful solvency on side government.
So, first with regards to the fact that it's not human caused.
I think there's a couple things under this.
First it's important recognized, that a significant percentage of the temperature rise over the last few years is largely attributable to changes in solar cycles, but beyond that, that is changes in like solar activity, that are largely attributable for changes in warming, but secondly in terms of the timeframe, it's worth recognizing that this recent increase in temperature is a blip.
It's unlikely to actually materialize in anything in terms of meaningful impacts, insofar as it is such a short period of time.
It is quite likely that there will be a rapid reversal.
A lot of the time it's cited, that: oh, well like this isn't something comparable to what we've seen in history, but I think it's important to recognize that short term blips like this literally wouldn't be recorded in terms of the historical record.
I don't think it's meaningful then to say, that this variation over the course of a couple decades, when our basically our capacity to measure these temperatures has increased.
I think it is reasonable to say, that when the tools you use to measure the change are altered, that there's probably going to be a different input, to what you have historically seen, in terms of the data.
But beyond all of this, it's worth recognizing, that there isn't a clear cut consensus on climate change, like this ninety seven percent figure is always thrown around, I think it's worth recognizing that, the existence of that three percent that is dissenting against the group, especially when you recognize that there's a chilling effect, within the academic community, against individuals that would be willing to speak out against climate change, means that it is worth considering the reality, that this is not something that the scientific community is meaningfully come to an agreement on, and as a result, it would be it would be unreasonable to take substantial action on behalf of that, like, unclear recommendation.
My second independent point is that, even if climate change is human caused, even if you don't buy anything that I've said so far, it's still unlikely that the mechanisms provided by side government are going to cause meaningful solvency.
I think this is important, right?
Like, even if the government side is correct in saying, that there is this existential threat posed by human caused climate change, you have to take into account the fact that they have repeatedly told you, like: oh, no, like this isn't going like this is like this massive harm that is just impossible to reign in, right?
But secondly, I think this is a collective action problem, that even if you're to take those arguments in stride, it's worth recognizing that each individual actor has to recognize the incentives of each other actor on a global scale.
So, the united states might be justified in acting against climate change, but if other countries don't act in tandem with the united states, then there's no reason for the united states go forward, the motion fails.
So, what are the harms then, if we try to engage in these combative actions, and they fail, because we don't have the meaningful capacity to beat back human caused climate change?
I think one, there's just quality of life harms, things like the economic impacts that are caused, by like changing your energy strategy, or things like that, are going to cause individual quality of life harms, that would not exist on the other side of the house.
But secondly, like I think there's also like a psychological aspect to this, that if you stop the fear mongering, and if you stop engaging in these policies, that make people worry significantly about the future, there's a benefit to people psyche, in that they are not fretting over this thing that they don't have control over.
I think we can buy the argument, that in this doom and gloom scenario, everyone dies in the long term.
The comparative then becomes whether or not, in the short term, in the days leading up to that end point, whether or not the world is a better place in the anteroom.
I think on our side of the house, the world is better.
Proud to oppose.