I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish open primaries in the united states.
We'll define this as both open primaries in things like presidential elections, where you just can declare what party you're voting for at the time you arrive at the poll, as well as open primaries in things like state and municipal elections, where the primary just involves you voting for any candidate and the two most you know vote getting candidates advance to a runoff final election, regardless of party.
This happens in louisiana and california for example.
Three independent points: first is sabotage voting.
So we think this is particularly pernicious at the presidential level, where essentially people will declare the other party like from the one that they are personally a member of in order to vote for a candidate they think is less viable.
This is a problem both principally and pragmatically.
Pragmatically it means that we increase the probability of just getting bad candidates at the final election or in the general, which in turn means that we just have worse representation for the country because we are being like faced with options, that is like choices in the general election, that just aren't particularly representative of what anybody wanted.
But secondly is the principled objection.
That is that it is that it is an issue when people who do not genuinely believe in a specific set of beliefs are the ones making the decision for who will proxy that group.
So, for example, republicans voting in a democratic primary are then in essence making a decision for the american left that they are and in a principled position to make.
This is an issue that brings me into my second independent point which is that parties need to know that will of their base.
So, we think that the the the main reason that primaries exist is that they exist so that we can actually tell parties: " this is who we want to put forward ".
There's a specific portion of the american voting base that is you know democratic or republican or whatever smaller party you want to look at, and then that voting bloc essentially tells the party leadership: " this is who we want representing our interests on a national level ".
When you have open primaries though, that fundamentally violates this principle because you distort the definition of what the base even constitutes.
You bring in lots of people that don't have a vested interest in the party and don't have a stake in what the outcome of that party is, long term, and you allow them to make the decision over who's going to proxy the will of that voting base.
We think this is inherently problematic insofar as you now have a party system that doesn't have a meaningful way to actually ensure that they are putting their best foot forward in terms of representing their constituency.
So we want a closed system that will ensure that primaries are actually a meaningful tool to proxy the will of the voters.
Our third independent point is that particularly in the open primaries that you see in state and municipal elections, they erode the capacity to represent minority viewpoints in elections.
Elections are important really for two reasons: the first is obviously to put people in power who will represent the wills and preferences of the majority but the second is just a discursive value that when you have you know people on a national or at least statewide or municipal wide stage, hashing out ideas and discussing what the best policies are, on you don't want things to fall into an echo chamber.
And I think that generally speaking, if you put two people forward that are too similar in their ideas, nothing really gets or a lot of things don't get challenged.
A lot of basic assumptions.
So if you put two democrats forward, a lot of the you know policies that they're going to endorse, they will agree on.
And there's no challenging then of those policies.
There's no public discussion of it.
We think that's inherently problematic.
So even if it doesn't perfectly mirror the will of the voters in terms of who's going to be elected, we think there's inherent value in having someone in there that might be willing to dissent against the more fundamental principles held by the other candidate.
For that reason, proud to propose.