I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion, that we should abolish affirmative action.
I think the definition of affirmative action is pretty straightforward, in that this is programs that, either in universities or corporations or whatever, promote people who are of historically oppressed classes in the united states.
Maybe this is like affirmative action program for like women in hiring, for like african americans, so on so forth, in generally, most like racial minorities this will probably apply to.
So, three independent points on this.
First, that there are often places people who are unqualified for the position, in a way that hurts both the institution at which they hired, and the person who is being the recipient of the affirmative action.
Second, that it distracts from more politically salient solutions to systemic inequality, and thirdly, the backlash that it generates.
On the first independent point, regarding lack of qualifications.
So we think that, generally speaking, these are going to be people who are put into these positions, that are comparatively less qualified than others, this is almost inherently true, given that if they were equally qualified, or more qualified, they would probably be higher to the traditional process.
I think there instances of hiring discrimination, that might like chew away the edges of this for them, but for the most part, like blatant hiring discrimination is something that can be legally prosecuted.
So, how does this harm individuals involved in the process then?
So first, at the corporate or university level, it harms them insofar as they have applicants at their doors, that are just like less qualified, less capable of doing their jobs.
That creates inefficiencies within the corporation.
But secondly, it harms the beneficiary three ways: first, on campus discrimination.
Things like hate crimes are more frequent for people that are beneficiaries of affirmative action, insofar as the narrative surrounding their acceptance is that they did not deserve it.
That in turn leads to a lot of discrimination, that would not occur in the world where they did not receive that affirmative action, and in return, means more suffering.
Second is the financial burden it places on these individuals, that, again when we're talking about universities, tuition is often quite high at the more prestigious universities, that affirmative action would generally have to apply to, because generally speaking, like state, universities don't have to worry about meeting these types of quotas.
And third, the high dropout rate, or firing rate in terms of corporations, means that generally the so called benefits of these programs aren't even actualized, right?
Like a lot of like, like a recipients of affirmative action are disproportionately more likely to drop out, specifically because they did not receive like the quality of early education, that was necessary to make them capable of the course load and the work burden, that is intrinsic to the place that they end up going.
So, as a result of that that they are much more likely to drop out.
So, second independent point is that it distracts from reforming primary school education, from like a political standpoint.
So in america, the black white testing gap, that is like the testing gap that exists between like african americans and white children, is something that originates around second grade, that is to say in like kindergarten and first grade generally, when you test people, there is like no statistically significant difference based on race.
As you get older however, that gap begins to widen, because a disproportionate accesses to access to resources like tutors, and other things that are generally financially motivated, but also somewhat intrinsic to like the way in which like we value like schools in like historically black neighborhoods, and things like that.
That's a problem that is a that is like actually possible to tackle, right?
Because when we just sort of take these children, who are historically disadvantaged by their primary education, and shove them into colleges expecting that to be the fix all, that doesn't work right?
Like we need to address these things in the most basic level, and when you have affirmative action programs that are satiating the liberals who support them, you generally don't get the more important reform at the basic level, that actually creates the problem in the first place.
Third independent point is backlash, that generally this is a galvanizing issue for like, far right groups, and like especially groups that are motivated by racial hatred.
We think that, generally, this is a bad thing, because this is something that is extremely easy to demonize, and so far it is like externally just like looks like an unfair thing to do, and as a result of that, we think there are like exogenous harms that come from this, as a result of the fact that you are driving people to engage in hateful politics, because you are giving them like, this easy thing to straw man.
Proud to propose.