I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should protect the free market.
I think gov's way of modeling this is a bit unclear, and that there is sort of a lot going on in terms of the specific protections they talk about.
Given that, I am going to hone in particularly on the anti-trust law component that they discuss.
That is the discussion of whether or not government should intervene against monopolistic behaviors.
Three independent points.
First is that market should be determined by survival of the fittest.
The reason for this is that markets self select for the best practices and best behaviors based on success, essentially.
That you know oftentimes monopolies will form on the basis that one company is just better than others.
We think this happened in the computer industry for example, in the you know in the twentieth century with microsoft largely, because of the fact that they were just better at what they did.
Even you know close to monopolies, things like what the computer industry looks like now, where it's essentially the microsoft and apple duking it out.
This type of behavior, we think, is largely the product of the fact that just some firms are superior to the smaller firms, and we think then that it is problematic when basically the government intervenes against the self selection process.
Intervention undermines that capacity of market to self select for the best practices, and as such, we think that this actually harms consumers, because it mitigates the abilities of firms that are large and very adept at responding to market demands, to actually provide products that individual consumers want the most.
Gov tells you extensively that monopolies mitigate competitive behavior, but we think that this is a problem for two reasons.
One is that we think it is possible to disrupt monopolies, this has happened before in history, a current example can be harry's razors, for example which is currently fighting a near monopoly on the part of gillette, and if you just provide a superior product, it is possible to get that market intrusion.
But secondly, we think it is a problem because if a monopoly occurs by virtue of one product just being superior, that should be the product going forward, and you shouldn't distort the market by giving a leg up to an inferior product.
Our second independent point is property rights.
That something like a forceful breakup of a company violates the basic rights of the company's owners and shareholders.
The reason why we care about property rights is that property is facilitative to many other rights.
Capital, for example, ensures our ability to buy healthcare or other things that are facilitative to our right to life or various other things.
Therefore it is inherently problematic when the government seizes that property from us, and uses it to justify its own hands.
We think that then breaking up large companies, because they are the property of shareholders and CEOs and board members and the like, is an inherent violation of property rights.
Our final independent point is that this type of intervention mitigates the likelihood of moon shot corporate practices.
A lot of the great advances in human history have come from essentially firms that were willing to engage in research promises or research practices and endeavors, that other firms were not willing or capable of doing.
And the reason why you can invest, you know, millions or even billions of dollars into researching an individual product that can move humanity forward is because you think you'll get some money back on it, this is the basic way that corporations work.
So the problem then is that if you're engaging in anti-trust laws that mitigate firms' ability to make substantial amounts of money back on something that they put substantial amounts of money into, firms just don't have the incentive to make these types of developments.
This is a problem then, because these developments often have large externalities and benefits that you know benefit not only the consumers, but also other companies that use these technological advancements to develop their own products, and move the world forward technologically.
Proud to oppose.