I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abandon social media.
I'd like to begin with an overview.
I think a decent amount of what side government tells you is specifically behavioral changes that are induced by social media.
The problem with the lion share of these arguments is that social media is essentially what we make of it.
The baseline incentives that people have to engage in particular behaviors exist whether or not social media exists as a tool.
For example, gov tells you that echo chambers exist on social media.
These also exist in interpersonal behavior though.
We select our friends based on, you know, shared beliefs and priorities and things like that.
Likewise, side government tells you about how like individual people will self-select what they share based on , you know, how attractive it makes their life seem.
I think these are generally behaviors that people indulge in though, even in interpersonal face-to-face conversation.
At that point then, the question in this round shouldn't be what behaviors are expressed on social media, but rather should be is social media a tool that facilitates the better aspects of interpersonal behavior or facilitates the, you know, more nefarious aspects of it.
With that, two independent points.
First, we believe that social media is incredibly beneficial for facilitating access to information.
By this, we mean that social media, as a tool, allows people to access things like news and other information more rapidly insofar as it is something that aggregates like to your stream, so you can go in one place and see a lot of the information of the day, news, things like that, but also breadth of opinion.
We think that oftentimes people only receive a narrow amount of opinions essentially, without something like social media.
Gov specifically makes a point of telling you that people put themselves in echo chambers on social media, but I think the comparative is a situation in which people really only have like a couple close friends' opinions and maybe one or two newspapers that they read as the actual comparative in what sort of breadth of opinion they're receiving on their side of the house.
Given that, I think even the kind of echo chambers that people form on social media are still comparatively a larger array of differing opinions and at that point then, I think that it's important to preserve this.
Not only though do I think that this is on a broad base of something that happens, but also it's important to note that it is a tool that people can, if used properly, facilitate.
For example, I as an individual could just bury my hand in head in the sand and read nothing but breitbart.
I could, on the other hand, use social media as a tool for increasing the number of news sources I have access to in a way that I normally wouldn't be capable of doing.
Something like regularly seeing the new york times, the washington post and plenty of, you know, other good newspapers show up on my newsfeed is something that wouldn't necessarily be possible if I didn't have that sort of aggregator to bring it all to me in one location.
At that point then, we think that we should preserve social media insofar as it is a tool that people can use if they decide to use it properly.
Our second independent point is relating to art.
So we think that social media increases the capacity for independent artists to increase their reach.
This is, you know, through things like sharing through their friends and just people seeing it as they scroll through their newsfeeds essentially in ways that really didn't used to be possible even, you know, ten, fifteen years ago.
At that point then, we think that it's really important that we preserve this way to spread art.
Independent art is important because it challenges the norms that exist within the world of art from everything to visual to, you know, music, any medium you want to look at.
We think it's important to inject new ideas, and any technology that can facilitate the injection of new ideas into the art scene is always something that's beneficial.
Proud to oppose.