I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion that we should subsidize stem cell research.
Two points of opposition: first, that subsidies are bad and second, that this creates unsustainable population growth that disproportionately harms the global poor.
On the first argument that subsidies are bad, it's important to note that subsidies inherently prop up corporations that are inefficient enough to actually thrive within the existing marketplace.
I think this is intuitively true.
Generally speaking, if a corporation could stand on its own feet without any sort of government assistance, it would be able to do so.
And it's worth noting that even if the corporation could stand on its own feet without the government assistance, and we're just assisting them anyway, then that is a poor use of taxpayer dollars.
The problem then is that when you are propping up a company that is not actually market-sustainable, first, it creates a system that encourages rent-seeking behavior.
So instead of doing things that actually create positive outputs and actually like benefit people at large, they generally engage in whatever behavior they think will get them more money.
A lot of the times that's counterproductive because when you engage in this behavior, when your incentive is to just prove that you need more money, a lot of the time companies will actually nerf their own efforts to do well in an effort to attract more funding from the government.
I think a good example of this is solyndra, which ultimately failed, because its entire profit model was just based on begging for money from the government.
But secondarily, even if it does work, it's an inefficient use of money, like rather than routing the subsidies to some sort of third-party actor that's going to do this and has these perverse incentives, I think it's a lot more reasonable to just do this at the government level, right?
Like, rather than subsidize somebody else doing it, just use the money to fund government research.
I think that's a much more direct way that you can get better efficacy per dollar.
Our second independent argument is that this creates unsustainable population growth.
So, it's worth recognizing that in the status quo, population growth is already unsustainable, that there's a finite amount of resources on this planet, and there are lots and lots of people competing for those resources.
What winds up happening isn't that everybody suffers.
What happens is the global poor suffers, while the global rich are able to buy up and control those resources.
So, what happens under stem cell research in this optimistic world that government paints.
It's, " oh, we cure for a lot of suffering.
We get rid of a lot of diseases.
We prolong life expectancy. "
The problem is that the benefits of stem cell research, by virtue of how expensive they are, aren't evenly distributed.
Those benefits disproportionately accrue to the people who are already wealthy, already powerful, already have access to the finite amount of resources in the world.
So you extend their life expectancy and by extension, you expand the amount of resources they need to consume, because they are living longer lives, they are probably having more kids, things like that.
So why is all this really really bad?
Because when those people eat up more and more of the resources, sometimes literally because it's food, that means that the global poor don't get access to those resources, that means that they are more at a relatively bad position in terms of access to the things that they need to survive.
This is important because you have to weigh all of the benefits they tell you one side government, these things like " oh, like x-old rich person gets to live a bit longer because of this cool nifty stem cell research, " and weigh that against the mass suffering that is caused by starvation and dehydration of the developing world as a result of the policy.
I think it's important to recognize that suffering is not something that happens on a linear scale.
It is exponential because poverty is cyclical, because poverty creates more and more harms, and the more and more cash-strapped you are that creates exponential means of suffering.
And as a result of all of this, on net, the policy that extends the lives of the people that are already eating up the most resources creates a world that is worse for the people that are most prone to extreme suffering.
Proud to oppose.