I am proud to propose the motion that we should ban hunting.
Our first independent point is animal rights.
So we think that animal rights exist for two reasons: first is that the standards for determining like who has rights and who doesn't that just favor humans only having rights are generally arbitrary in nature.
So for example like the most frequently cited one is like: " oh, well humans are more intelligent ", but like we're totally fine with being like: " yes like a one day old baby has rights but like an elephant doesn't ".
And we think that if you're doing that calculation just based on what the raw intelligence of the being is, like elephants are clearly smarter than a newborn infant.
At that point then, we think that this is an arbitrary standard.
But secondly we think that animal rights exist simply because we believe that rights come from having preferences.
So what we mean by this is that like scales and like first order versus second order thinking shouldn't matter.
That just if you are capable of suffering and like experiencing pain and can demonstrate that you don't want to experience that pain, then there is no need to force you to experience that pain.
Like, if you like, I don't know like for some reason we're just like fine with the fact that like: " oh, well yeah, like prodding a cattle with a hot iron for no reason is probably bad, but like also you can kill it and that's a reasonable trade off for like humans enjoying the taste of the meat. "
So the impacts calculus there is nonsense.
Like at the end of the day if we are comfortable saying like suffering for the sake of suffering is bad, then we think that the impact calculus almost -ly favors protecting animals rights.
We think that hunting is harmful to animals in two ways: first is just that like in a vacuum, murder is bad.
Like we think that things have a right to life that that is facilitative to any other preference that they might have, and especially for beings that act on instinct, this is basically the only preference they have, so it makes sense to protect it.
But let's say you're of the opinion that animals don't care and as long as they're killed painlessly it's fine.
We still think the process of hunting is necessarily problematic.
Because animals, usually before they are killed, are aware that they're being hunted.
And there really isn't a way to create a regulatory structure that only bans hunting in instances where the animals don't know they're being hunted.
At that point then, we think that the psychological trauma intrinsic to the animal that is experiencing it is significantly more of a harm than whatever benefit the hunter derives from like the thrill of the game or whatever.
At that point then we think that this is an impact calculus that favors the ban.
Our second independent point is biodiversity.
So we believe that there are plenty of instances throughout history of rampant hunting leading to the rapid extermination of native populations.
Like we now have more regulations on like hunting seasons and things like that to ensure that this doesn't happen, but it is still a difficult line to walk because you are often capable of figuring out how many like animals hunters are going to kill in a given season.
And that fluctuation can result in serious harms on the broader ecosystem that you're looking at.
So let's say like too many deer are killed in one season in a particular region then the animals that relied on those deer for food like say, I don't know, mountain lions or something, are go into dwindle.
And we think that this is something that then ripples throughout the ecosystem, that the balance of different plant and animal wise fall out of whack and as a result we wind up with a permanently harmed like ecosystem.
Our third and final independent point is that hunting increases gun availability.
We think that the only pretense that like pro gun groups are really operating on right now is that people can have guns for hunting.
This is a silly pretense because hunting is way less important than just like murder and like gun violence in general, but we think that if you ban hunting for otherwise reasonable reasons then you get the added benefit of just having a pretense to say: " okay yes so we can like stop selling guns to legal markets now " right?
Because there is literally no reason to do it after you abolish hunting.
At that point then, we think that you can significantly curtail gun violence by decreasing the availability of guns.
Proud to propose.