I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should enact compulsory voting.
Two independent points: first is that people have a right to not vote.
I think there's a lot of different ways in which someone like might want to not vote, that they want to specifically utilize this as a means of conveying a message or just acting upon their own utilitarian goals.
So, for example, someone might be opposed to the nature of a state, so like an anarchist, for example.
Likewise, someone might reject the legitimacy of the vote because they think there are some sort of like mass corruption within the government that undermines the reasons for even holding a vote in the first place.
Third, you know, people might have sort of like just a reasonable cost-benefit analysis of like the impact of their individual vote versus the amount of effort they have to expend going to a polling station.
There are legitimate reasons people might not want to vote.
And while these might seem like kind of like low impact and nitpicky, that's the way that rights work.
Generally speaking, we think about rights in this way, that we take a broader net than not, because we understand that the government is the one making the decisions on how to implement these rights.
So when it comes to rights that regard the ways in which citizens interact with their government, we care a lot more about ensuring that they are perfectly enforce, to even comical extents, to ensure that the government is not infringing upon those rights insofar as they might have an incentive to do so.
So if you think that there is literally any reason a person might not want to vote that is legitimate by any interpretation, in that case you should ensure that that person is not penalized for not voting.
Our second independent point is that it is punitive to people who experience structural barriers to voting.
So, model says, basically, we're going to find people that don't show up for this, but we're going to implement a voting holiday.
That will ensure that everyone gets to, you know, show up and they say a couple of other things like more polling places and things like that.
So I think gov does a good job of explaining to you what the barriers are to engaging in voting, especially if you're like poor or you're located in a really rural area, like there are structural reasons you can't do this.
The problem is that I think there's really two reasons why this won't be sufficient.
The first is that employers will always find a way to just sort of like screw over people, even if there's a like a holiday, right?
Because some people still work on holidays.
They have like financial reasons that this is just something they have to do because they have to support their families, and it's not like on these holidays, like in the way that this is true of federal holidays too, every business in the entire country just shuts down for the entire day.
So, some people will be still financially incapable of taking the day off.
There will still be barriers created by poverty to engaging in this, and levying a fine on people for being subjected to these cyclical forms of barriers to engaging in voting is just going to make this like a tougher situation for the individual.
I don't think it helps anybody.
But secondly, we just think that there are always going to be government practices that exist to actively oppose in like operations that look to enfranchised people.
So we see this in the status quo with like republicans in particularly red states that want to ensure that democrats don't show up to vote.
Like in the deep south, you have voter ID laws that are directly meant to discriminate against hispanic americans.
I think the same thing applies when you're talking about a voting holiday or something like that.
Things like ID laws and things like that will prevent people from showing up to the polls, and that's going to be a problem with they're inevitably fined for it.
Insofar as there are like structural reasons within our government that people will actively attempt to keep people from voting, it seems absurd then to penalize them for not being capable of voting when those restrictions kick in.
Proud to oppose.