I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should prohibit tower blocks.
Three independent points: first, is problems associated with density.
So there's a lot of externalities that are generated when you have a large amount of people living in a small amount of space.
This is intrinsic to tower blocks.
You stack a bunch of people on top of each other and suddenly in this very small place of land you have a large amount of people because you've built it all vertically.
Externalities include things like increased smog from just the general amount of machinery associated with human activity that is occurring in the location, increased traffic based again on human volume, increased noise and light pollution, increased costs of goods in land, this is driven by and this is really the most significant one, is that it is driven by the fact that there is a large amount of people competing for a small amount of space.
That increases the cost of real estate which in turn increases the costs of goods.
Your supermarket is going to be much more expensive when their rent is through the roof because of the value that is associated with the land.
We think generally speaking then people's quality of life is going to be a lot better when they could spread out a bit more.
The land value goes down and the cost of living in turn also goes down.
Our seconded independent point is ghost powers.
So when you build these like high rise luxury condominium type buildings you generally have a lot of property costs that go up because they are seen as a signal that the market in the area is hot.
That would normally be fine if people were buying in the area.
It would drive a lot of like tax revenue and things like that.
But the problem is that you generally just put a big sticker price on the individual condominiums inside the building and then what happens is that foreign investors but it up.
So I think like a really notorious example of this is the millennium tower in boston where the the like top like entire like few floors are just like empty because people buy these up as investments so that they could resell them later.
There's also a lot of cities in china where this is like a notorious thing where there's just these huge, huge rising towers that nobody lives in because it's basically treated like stocks.
Like it's just an investment that people hold onto so they can sell later.
That's a problem because the property area values in the area now increase but without the reciprocal benefit of people walking these streets, buying goods from the stores, things like that.
So we think that you get a lot of the harms without the benefits.
Our third independent point is that it drives segregation.
This I think is probably what's most important.
So when you have these large tower blocks that increase density in generally the center of a city it creates a congregation of wealthy people at the center of the city in a very small space.
This is a problem because now what you have in your city, instead of just sort of like a mixed income neighborhood at the center where you have like the inner city sort of jostling up upon the people that just want to live close to where they work, by like you know the office buildings and things like that at the center of the city, now what you have is a lot of very valuable real estate right at that center of the city that a lot of people compile into.
That then pushes lower income people out of those neighborhoods and into a center ring.
So basically the way your city looks now is you have a dense population at the very center, then a ring of poor neglected neighborhoods, and then another ring of suburbs that are much wealthier.
So you have like when your transit system does this you literally have people riding the train through the poorer neighborhoods in a way that allows the city at the most at a basic infrastructure level to neglect these neighborhoods.
Because they only have to worry now about the center and the outer ring.
They don't have to prioritize those central neighborhoods and we think this is problematic for these neighborhoods capacity to have services provided to them.
Proud to propose.