I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that the free market should be protected.
We'll model this as just principled opposition to any sort of policy that restricts the free market, so onerous regulations for example as well as you know large amounts of big government intervention such as corporate taxation and other ways in which the free market is impeded upon.
We principally support a market that ensures that you know people can basically freely participate in any sort of economic endeavor that they desire with the obvious exception of just like things that should be illegal like we're not going to you know legalize industries that are inherently rampant with suffering such as like sex trafficking.
But on this then two independent points.
The first is that this is just a like fair standard to approach.
So we think that generally speaking labor should be rewarded with returns on that labor, that when I expend a significant amount of effort on doing something, I should get something in return for that effort.
We think it's fundamentally unjust then that the government often has like a habit of impeding upon that capacity for me to receive back for my labor.
But furthermore, we think there's a violation of property rights intrinsic with the ways in which that the government can like impede upon a free market.
So for example, onerous regulations put in place on businesses basically restrict us from acting as we please with our own property.
If I own a business it's something that belongs to me.
Property rights matter intrinsically because they're key to autonomy, my ability to do what I please in life is largely dependent on my ability to do what I please with the things that I own because they're facilitative to certain rights, particularly my right to economic well-being which is intrinsic to my right to things like you know health and a happy life are dependent on my ability to control my property as I please.
When the government artificially restricts that, it restricts on my rights to you know actually do what I please with the things that belong to me.
Given that we think that there's just a large principle justification for why the government whenever possible should ensure that the free market operates as smoothly and as openly as possible.
Our second independent point is just maximizing economic development.
So we think that a rising tide lifts all boats, and what we mean by this is that when the economy can develop properly and expand properly, it adds more jobs through more businesses that that economic expansion affords you know basically a better life to people.
This is not just through you know the ways that the economy more directly affects us like employment but also through the types of technologies that are often developed through the economy.
For example you know basically things that have a beneficial effect on our life such as like you know new technologies associated with the internet or with phones for example just have a better standard of life on people.
And we think that when you artificially restrict the development of the free market, you restrict the development of both these technologies and the businesses that employ people thus bettering their lives on an individual basis.
Restrictions on this development then have a broad macro effect that even if op wants to come up here and talk about how like you know the global poor for example are disproportionately harmed by capitalism I I think they have to beat back the arguments that demonstrate you know why this broader economic development has a really beneficial effect on quality of life.
Put more bluntly, we think that inequity is fine if that inequity means that you know everybody is better off.
That is we would prefer a world where like some people have ten dollars and some people have a million dollars to a world where everybody has five dollars.
And insofar as economic development is predicated on people to do as they wish and innovate as they wish within a free market, we think that that world with the inequity but with better standards of life for everybody is intrinsic to our side of the house.
Proud to propose.