I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban private education.
Three independent points.
The first of which is that a ban on private education increases resource competition, and in an exceedingly crowded environment, we think that this is particularly true of primary and secondary education.
So when you take out private schools, you force everybody into the public school system.
This is fairly intuitive obviously in that they have to go somewhere so they're all going to go to public.
The problem with this though is that the funding for private universities is directly coming out of the tuition paid by students.
The counter factual of this, public universities are not funded the same way.
They're funded through property taxes that are paid even if you don't go to that school.
This is really important then because it means that despite the number of people in a school increasing, you're not actually increasing the quality of that school or its funding.
You're just putting a higher burden on it without any reciprocal increase in capacity to deal with that burden.
This has two impacts, the first is just the quality of education goes down for everybody because the school is less equipped to deal with the larger number of people.
For example, you have you know smaller class sizes, you can pay teachers less, overall there will be massive harms on the public education system.
But secondly, we think that this actually drives inequity by forcing resource competition.
What we mean by this is that individuals will have to vie for resources within the public school system and often, resources already accrued to wealthy students.
This occurs through PTA foundations for example that you know actually decide you know where a lot of extra money gets to go within school systems.
It also accrues through systems like accelerated or enriched programs where smarter students, that is students that can afford tutors, get to go through a different set of programs that is allocated more resources.
We think that inherently, all of this is exceptionally problematic and that when you force poorer students in the public school system to go head-to-head with richer students who have the capacity to eat up more resources because their parents are better equipped to demand those resources, this inherently comes at the disadvantage of poorer students.
Our second independent point is that these private universities are simply just like better schools.
This is true that both the tertiary level and the primary-secondary.
Gov explains pretty thoroughly why this is true you know better funding, you know prestige attracts certain degrees of interest, that sort of thing.
We think the problem then is because you're not going to see a reciprocal increase in the quality of public schools, as I mentioned earlier, there's no need to hobble sort of like the top tier of education just for the sake of equality.
We think that principally speaking it is better to have a society with inequality if the comparative is an equal society where everybody is worse off.
That is absent explicit justification for why equity in and of itself is important, we think that we should just create the society that can do the most good on an aggregate basis.
Gov specifically tries to tell you that there's like this issue comes in where at school a basically private schools will poach teachers by being able to give them better salaries.
This is really the only specific justification that is given as to why private schools benefit at the expense of public schools, but the problem is that if the public schools can't afford to give good salaries, then people just won't enter the teaching profession, rather our brightest minds will accrue to other industries where there's you know more capacity to actually earn money.
Given that then it seems unlikely that gov does anything to benefit the state of education.
Our third point just briefly is that private education increases choice.
We think things like montessori schools for example are equally legitimate ways of learning.
If we can afford people the option to learn in that way, then it is good to meet the individual needs of each student to the best extent possible.
Proud to oppose.