I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that single-sex schools should be banned.
We'll model this as requiring that schools have some level of gender balance so that people just can't get around the exemption by admitting like one girl to their all-male school but often generally speaking we won't like crackdown super hard on this.
If a school has like a seventy-thirty split we're probably fine with that.
So two independent points.
First is that gender single-gender schools are bad for socialization.
We think really there's two things under this, the first being is that just day-to-day life in the real world requires that you interact with members of the opposite sex.
This is true just generally speaking you know in the workplace even just like on the street in public.
Other you know people exist and you have to like deal with that as a the reality of day-to-day life.
An important function of school is preparing you for the real world and making sure that you're ready to grapple with real-life situations, so we think it's fundamentally bad then when schools you know don't actually meet that standard and when they don't properly prepare people to deal with what they're going to experience in the real world.
There's obviously some limit on this.
We don't you know force children to undergo like dealing with like really horrible things like experiencing like the death of a loved one or something like that, like obviously there are some things you learn outside of school but we think that really basic fundamental things especially things that are rooted in like the structure of your life in day-to-day operations are things that should be reflected in your upbringing and in your school life.
But secondly we think from a socialization perspective that it perpetuates misogyny.
The reason for this is that often single-gender schools end misogyny and just like a generally gender differences are perpetuated because you create an institution where gender norms on one side are reinforced.
A lot of like the boys will be boys attitudes come from all-male schools where you never have to reconcile with the fact that they are you know people out there that are raised with different gender norms from what you were raised under.
That then gives you an opportunity to say x you know viewpoint or x norm set is inherently bad.
So we think that this in turn then perpetuates the notion that you know male norms in like male like traditionally male attributes are inherently superior.
This the reason for why it generally favors men then brings me to my second point that because all-male schools are generally you know funded better and have more institutional history than all-female schools, this system exacerbates gender inequity.
So I think generally the argument here is that obviously male schools you know they're older they're seen as more prestigious on a average basis.
There are obviously prestigious all-female schools but they are less numerous than all-male schools and as a result you have a system that it basically just gives an inherent edge to men.
It provides them with a better education, it provides them with at least better funding for their education and more resources and as such you have at the basic level a system that you know gives men a leg-up essentially in their educational process.
But beyond this we think that it exacerbates the notion that men are superior on the basis that they receive more funding, on the basis that if you just look at these schools people will say oh well you know the reason why the all-male schools get some more money is just because like men are better.
So we think this is a problem obviously and we think that fundamentally the notion that op is going to bring up is like oh well you know you can have the separate institutions I think this links back to basically the problem with separate but equal is that if you create separate institutions for separate genders, the existing power inequity that is in our society will always be reflected in those institutions.
So as a result if there are if there continue to be single-gender schools, the all-male schools will always disproportionately receive more funding and more resources.
Proud to propose.