I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion that prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory.
First, the model.
So I think first like what's really intuitive about the model is that sort of the government would just subsidize the procedure to minimize the impact that this would have on the individual, like particularly the mother.
We would also say that the standard for when governments are justified in making something mandatory is one of two things: either one, utility, just that it makes the world a significantly better place, and any sort of like privacy or like minor autonomy rights claims can be just weighed against the mass amount of suffering that the policy mitigates, but secondly is prevention of third party harms.
So I'm going to demonstrate to you why we need both of these standards, but I think it is important to recognize that if either one of these standards is met, that is sufficient for a government for like mandatory policy.
So on the first of these standards, that it is something that is just naturally utile.
I think this links into the parents' right to know about things that will happen to them in the long term.
So, recognize that there are effects on the parent that happen as a result of birth defects, right?
Like significant costs they have to incur, emotional trauma that is intrinsic to this, and I think it is important there that the parent has this knowledge.
Opp is going to tell you oh, but like they can just opt into this, and they have that decision making power if they want to.
I think that's a bad standard for two reasons.
First is that a lot of parents have this mentality that it could never happen to me, that these terrible tragic things are something that happen to other families, and you are unlikely to actually buy into this thing.
So, necessarily in the status quo, because this isn't something that is subsidized, that is even more likely to result in parents saying, I'm not going to get the prenatal diagnosis.
Obviously if we make this mandatory, the government has to subsidize into some means, I'm pretty sure that is actually just like compliant with the general way we view the role of government in our society.
But secondly, we would say the opt in standard is bad, because parents generally don't have meaningful access to the information surrounding the likelihood of a lot of these defects.
I think people think of just a small subset of these defects and say oh, but those are super rare, and they're like oh, okay well you know down syndrome affects like one in every however many thousand kids, that's probably not going to happen to my kid especially because it's hereditary.
But the sheer magnitude of the number of these types of disorders that could potentially affect your child, means that this actually is something that could potentially have a pretty profound impact on your life, and I think therefore it is important to give the parents access to that information, even if they are not aware of the fact that this is something that is a probable outcome.
But my second independent point is that this is intrinsically important for the child's rights.
So, I think it's pretty intuitive as to why this is something that affects the child.
Necessarily these types of disorders can cause a lot of suffering.
But also a lot of them, particularly the physical disorders, the impact can be mitigated if you have this like on site care at the time of birth, that if you are aware of this through the prenatal diagnosis, you can take action almost immediately and significantly mitigate the harms of the disorder.
Things like spinal like like spines growing in improperly and like other bone structure things, things regarding your cardiovascular system.
There's tons of physical disorders that can be significantly mitigated if you are aware of them beforehand.
So it's intrinsically important to the child's rights then that this prenatal diagnosis happen, because when these terrible things do happen, it's important to have the ability to combat them in a meaningful way.
That's a big utilitarian impact just in terms of the sheer amount of suffering that you mitigate by having that preventative care, but also in terms of the rights claim, it's important to recognize that the child is a innocent bystander in this situation, that they have a strong desert claim to the mitigation of their suffering insofar as it's not like they did anything to deserve that, it's not like they made any decision that actually caused that suffering, so we would say that the government has an obligation to mitigate it in any way possible.
Proud to propose.