I'm proud to support the motion that we should end international aid.
We'll broadly be defining this as the sort of like humanitarian aid that you see coming out of things like the united states towards the developing world so humanitarian aid and things like sort of like storm relief and just general giving financial or in kind aid to developing countries.
Three independent points, first is that it crowds out the development of domestic industry in the developing world.
So when the united states or some other like large wealthy western liberal democracy comes in and says we're going to give you you know all this food, all of this water, all of this money what it does is it crowds out the ability of a private sector within that country to reasonably develop.
If you say okay I'm going to drop a bunch of free food in this country what happens then is that nobody is going to pay a local farmer to produce that food when they just get it for the united states government for free.
We think that even if this is well intentioned in the short term in the long term then it creates a cycle of dependency one where in the country that is receiving aid is incapable of actually getting itself into some sort of system where it is capable of providing for itself because the sparks that create a functioning private sector a functioning domestic industry are never allowed to flourish.
Our second independent point is inflation.
So we believe that the way that international aid works, that when you give money to a country or even when you get physical goods to a country, it leads to inflation because it increases the supply of currency within that country without really any sort of like development or like more employment or anything like that, usually these are just material goods.
As a result then inflation goes up and the cost of living gets a lot harder to grapple with, that because you're just funneling tons and tons of money into this country and increasing the costs of goods as a result of that we think that the realistic like long term expectation is that you're just not going to be able to you know pay for goods as an individual living within that country that if you know the cost of a loaf of bread is just a ridiculously high amount it doesn't matter if the united states periodically comes in and drops some more food for you.
On a day-to-day basis you're not going to have the resources necessary to support yourself and your family.
We think then that that fundamentally undercuts not just the status of human rights within that country, but also that it fundamentally undercuts the ability of this country to recover and to find its own footing in the long run.
Our third and final independent point though is that the notion of giving aid to another country is a fundamental violation of the social contract.
The reason for this is that the basis upon which we have government, specifically a democratically elected government, is that that government exists to reflect the interests of the people that it should be helping the individuals that elected them in the first place.
We think that while a small amount of international aid is usually intended with that purpose such as building advantageous relationships or things like that, the vast majority is not.
The vast majority of international aid is taking money from the taxpayers within the country giving that aid and giving that money to people abroad.
That is fundamentally problematic, that is a violation of the notion that we elect governments for the purpose of representing our own interests and for the purpose of representing our own benefits and providing us with those benefits.
We think that the government should not be redistributing taxes in this fashion because it is fundamentally undemocratic.
Proud to propose.