I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should end mandatory retirement.
Two independent points really.
The first is is quite simply just ageism.
So what I mean by ageism is discrimination against somebody based on their age specifically I think there's a lot of ways that this plays out in you know modern society.
A lot of you know stereotypes about people who are older, what they're capable of.
That sort of thing.
And while there are certainly physical and inherent restrictions on capacity at older age you know losing things like your eyesight or your other you know senses or facilities that something that varies from person to person.
So when we create blanket rules like this I think it's inherently a problem that you are making this assumption based on a person's age that they are incapable of performing certain duties when that's not an inherent truth.
The impact of this on the person who is you know being forced to retire I think is pretty significant a lot of the time.
It for some people this is a important source of income the retirement system that is set up within our country is inadequate to say the best and as a result a lot of people do rely on study sources of income later into their lives.
But you know secondly a lot of people just have personal reasons for preferring to work, something to you know keep them engaged later in life.
Retirement isn't for everybody and it is something that is important to a lot of people to be able to remain that active later into their lives.
But this is you know simply the impact it has on the individual that is being forced to retire.
I think what's much larger and much more systemic is the impacts that is has on the industry itself.
This brings me into my second point that this process is actually harmful for employers and those that benefit from the services provided by this work.
So let's take the military as an example which has mandatory retirement ages on a lot of their like higher level staffing positions.
The problem with this system is that there is always a way to get rid of these people if they truly become incapable of fulfilling their duties because it's obviously absurd to claim that you know there are that all eighty year olds are capable of performing military duties.
I think the problem is that there's a lot of people who you know are just in excellent health, they're totally capable of performing their duties but are forced to retire anyway because of the mandatory age.
This is where discretion is important.
You can fire people that are incapable of performing their duties anymore, that's never going to be out of the question.
It the problem with having the blanket policy is that the few people who really are exceptional, who really are capable of continuing to fulfill their duties are forced out.
Beyond just the harms that that has on the individual, that has harms on the industry.
So you look at the military again and that's someone that's an excellent field general or even an excellent parlor general as a strategist, this is someone that you're taking out of commission and harming your ability to do your functions that you know the best possible level because this is someone that probably has a lot of expertise because of the years that they have spent in the military, that understands what's going on very very well and is very capable of their duties.
There is going to be you know a peak obviously but if your goal is to always have the best person for a job for the job in that place weighing experience against youth is always an equation you have to fill out, but I don't think that this these people's supervisors are incapable of performing that equation or making that decision and at that point then offering the discretion to the employer to make the decision themselves as to whether or not this person is fit for duty is always going to be significantly better than you know forcing their hand with a blanket policy.
Proud to propose.