I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should introduce recall elections.
Three independent points.
First is that recall elections you know make up for a more democratic government.
Generally speaking the reason why we care about democracy is that we care about citizen input into the decisions made by the government.
The reason you know we even have a government in the first place is to work for the citizens and to better the lives of the majority of the population.
So we care about having elected officials then that are very good at representing our interests.
And I think often when we elect people into office you know there is a limited picture we get of them during the election season that the election season really is just a proxy for figuring out what they're going to do when they you know get to the the legislature and actually start making decisions.
At that point then there is a sort of a failing in the democracy, there's a there's a lack of ability to really have a a perfect representation when they get up there.
And that's obviously a problem because you know there's if there's any failing at all we want to correct for that failing.
Recall elections then means that we have a means of you know taking people out of office if it turns out that they're just really really egregiously not doing a good job.
I think that you know often we will find that these aren't things that are gone about liberally yet they do exist in some states already and they're quite rare because people do have a bit of a diversion to you know radically shifting their government on the turn of the dime they want to go about business as usual but they are just some exceptional cases that really warrant having these recall elections and I think that's generally what they are going to be used for, to ensure that people are better represented.
Our second independent point though is that it creates greater accountability among elected officials.
Oftentimes elected officials wind up with this perception that there is a certain window directly after the election and leading up until you know basically about a year before they have to be reelected where they are free to make some pretty egregious mistakes because they'll have time to make up for it.
This is fundamentally a problem.
I don't think there should be any point at an elected officials career where they do feel like safe so to speak and the reason for this is that we have a very high standard for electeds.
Their decision is really really important the decisions they make that is in terms of our day-to-day lives you know they're making decisions on healthcare, on public safety, on things that are really really important to the individual person on the ground and have a serious impact.
So it's fair then to hold them to an extremely high standard and I think that's what this does.
It prevents them from having the impression that they can you know just sort of glide by the seat of their pants until the election comes back around and then just sort of you know prove their pay case again.
So our third independent point finally is just an increased confidence in the way the government works.
I think a lot of the narrative surrounding why people are so upset with their governments particularly in you know western liberal democracies lately has to do with a sense of the unaccountability that they feel that their elected officials you know basically just once they get in they stop you know regarding the voters' wishes and their that their elected officials are people that you know just sort of take advantage of the system and so do these gaps in the system that I previously explained.
I think if you get rid of the gaps, even if you don't think that elected officials are you know these monsters that are being you know horribly horribly demonized by the media even if that's your opinion, I think that when you increase that confidence in government by just enacting these types of reforms then you just minimize the rate at which you know that demonization even accures.
So it's always going to be a good thing that to ensure that elected officials you know at least from a from the perception standpoint are seen as people that act with the best interests of the people in mind and that insures that people have more confidence in their government, they you know they feel more secure in the way that their country is being run and that just you know makes them happier, makes them feel more secure and that in and of itself is a benefit.
Proud to propose.