I am proud to oppose the motion that we should stop having pride parades.
So three independent points.
First is the signaling that's intrinsic to holding a pride parade.
I think a lot of what government tells you is predicated on this idea that like visibility is bad, that you know being like in your face about gayness or having a lot of people in one place that might be the target of a hate crime is an inherent issue.
I think there's two problems with this.
The first is that stopping these pride parades constitutes backing down essentially.
That it will inevitably be seen by like homophobic groups and other associated oppressive organizations as them winning.
That they you know basically that their hate and their vitriol won it out in the end and as a result they were able to get the gay community to stop.
I think this is problematic in its own right because it signals to homophobic groups and other like minded groups that they can continue practicing these types of expressions and these ideas in public settings and as such, will probably proliferate the the rate at which these ideas are expressed but secondly, I think a lot more importantly is that having yearly parades in various cities around various countries is creates a sense of visibility for the gay community that probably wouldn't exist otherwise.
It not only forces people to be acknowledge the existence of the gay community, you can't just like block this out and pretend it doesn't exist when it's all over the news on a certain day or at least over the stretch of like a month or so in the summer, but also it insures that there is like this actual engagement with that reality.
We think that the world that is most dangerous for the LGBT community is what wherein people can just block out the reality of oppressive homophobia, one where hate crimes don't even get reported because it's just seen is every day and justified.
We think having these pride parades reminds people that the gay community exist.
That LGD _g_b_t individuals actually are valuable and are important and are constantly the victim of crimes and other forms of hatred and as such, we think having these parades continues the narrative that can demonstrate this suffering exists.
Our second independent point is that there are social benefits within the LGBT community to having pride parades.
We think that for a lot of individuals particularly in like smaller less liberal communities like say in like rural parts of the united states or rural parts of most countries honestly, you are a lot less likely to be able to find other people who are gay.
This is a problem not like just in terms of your ability to have like a healthy like social and dating life, but also in terms of finding other people who can relate to your experiences and can relate to your identity.
It can feel extremely alienating to literally be the only gay person you know.
We think that like a kid in like rural texas is very likely to experience this feeling and that sense of alienation can have profound psychological, emotional, and social effects on the individual.
Having these large gatherings where someone who isn't well integrated to the gay community because of that isolation, is incredibly valuable.
Our third and final independent point is that gay pride parades are are pride parades are often very political events that can be utilized in a way that's net beneficial.
I think a lot of what government tells you is that like the form of messaging is problematic, that it's like too in your face for some republicans.
I think the problem with this is that just like any discussion of rights is always going to be like too much for for some moderates.
Like the radical center will always be upset when you talk about things that are genuinely important.
So at that point then, we think it's just better to have the event where you discuss these political realities openly, freely, and in a context where people are actually going to listen to you.
Like pride parades create a situation in which just like for at least one day the media just has to listen to you when you talk about like violence against transgender individuals or when you talk about like marriage equality or any number of other things.
At that point then, we think the political power that is given to these parades is worth keeping them around.
Proud to oppose.