I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish monarchies.
I think there's a bit of variation worldwide about what the extent of the power of monarchies is.
In many european countries, for example, monarchs are more or less figureheads.
They sometimes have the capacity to be heads of state and have some role in foreign relations issues, but they are largely not going to be decision makers.
They don't pass legislation, any of that sort of thing.
In other countries, they literally run everything in the country, such as like in the middle east, in saudi arabia is an excellent example of this.
So we're going to make arguments for both of these, but I do want to note that some of these arguments will obviously apply to both.
So, three independent points: first is that monarchies in figurehead states constitute a large waste in public expenditures.
So, in these countries where the monarchies aren't actually vital to any sort of government function, they are a large drain on the taxpayer.
You're paying for a large mansion, you're paying for services afforded for free to these individuals.
There's an opulent lifestyle for these people that really haven't done anything to earn that opulent lifestyle, and it's being propped up by taxpayers, people that don't have much of a choice one way or another about if they're actually going to sustain these people.
This is fundamentally unjust.
I don't think that there has to be a lot of warranting here as to why it is bad when tons of working class people are being forced to just pay for silly expenditures generated by a royal family within a country.
But I think it's important to note that this is something that is fundamentally ridiculous and that this money can be transferred to much more meaningful expenditures like, say, homeless services, or like mental health services, or any number of the examples of things you can think of that are drastically underfunded.
Our second independent point is that when it comes to places where the monarchies do make meaningful decisions, those systems are fundamentally undemocratic.
People, I think it goes without saying, have the right to make decisions about what's going to happen in their own lives.
This is the reason that we care about democracy: that giving people autonomy over the rules that are going to be imposed on them is fundamentally important to our general right to autonomy.
Given that, it is a problem when individuals or even families can unilaterally make decisions that affect tons of other people.
We're okay with this in republican democracies, but only because people actually have the ability to affect what those decisions are being what decisions are being made.
In a monarchy, that capacity is extremely limited.
The only real way to put pressure on a monarchy is through like threat of revolution or something, which carries enormous risk with it.
So I don't think then it is reasonable to say that people have any sort of meaningful autonomy when it comes to relations with their governments under monarchies.
This is an extreme problem and it should be done away with.
Our third independent point though is that something that really applies to both of these, although it is much more extreme in impact under meaningful monarchies where they actually make decisions, and that's that you have people who are given public platforms to shape norms that aren't warranted.
So the queen of england gets to wax poetic about whatever it is she feels like talking about.
And that's all well and fine except that, generally speaking, people treat her as an authority, someone who is qualified to speak on these issues.
That's a problem because people take this advice to heart.
They consider it to be things that are actually like almost objectively correct in some circles.
But the person that is making these proclamations hasn't done anything to warrant the mass amount of authority that has been given to that position.
That position is a product of the family they were born into, not any sort of effort they put towards learning the issue, not towards any sort of expertise they have in it.
And then as a result, public policy and public opinion is shaped around that unwarranted position.
Given that, we think there's a profound impact on what people's considerations of the truth are, and when this shapes into government policy, what the effects on their day-to-day lives are.
Proud to propose.