I'm proud to support the motion that we should ban primary elections.
Three independent points, first is that these elections allow for more elite control over political systems.
What I mean by this is that in the status quo, we see a significant amount of elite influence.
So for example, established higher members of a party or like wealthy donors that sort of thing have a lot of control over the political process.
Who makes it to the ballot even at that really fundamental level is often controlled by just how much money wealthy people are willing to donate to them or how much support they get internally from within their party.
We think that while this influence is going to exist at pretty much every level because of how systemic it is, it is significantly worse with primary elections.
The reason for this is twofold.
First, a primary election, like say the democratic primary election or the republican primary election or whatever, is going to be much more controlled by that group of people because you have distilled the population of people that actually invest themselves into these elections down to that base.
So if you are concerned then about elites within the republican party making decisions about who the republican nominee will be, the primary is going to be an even more concentrated subset of individuals that will still entirely include republican party elites.
But secondly we think that there are problematic way for elites to get control and specifically a better avenue because of the low turnout.
When there is lower turnout at primary elections as there often is because there's less coverage because there's less discussion because it's seen as less high stakes elites can more easily control with things like donations because you're talking about less of a concerted opposition base of say poorer individuals within the party that could actually provide some sort of meaningful opposition to them.
Our second independent point though is that these these primary elections create artificial constraints on the voting population.
Specifically what we mean is that the primary election says okay we're going to take this field of say you know five candidates, whittle it down to one, and that's who we're going to put in the general election.
The problem is that this really really really alienates moderates who could feasibly vote for either party.
So say the democratic party is going to put through somebody and they decide amongst democratic voters, that is members of the party, they're gonna put someone that's pretty far to the left.
The problem then that when you get on to the general election is if the republican party also did that that is they also put someone who is fairly extreme in this case pretty far to the right moderates are left in the center with no real choice.
We think this is a problem because a lot of people in most countries are independents, people that don't see themselves as wedded to an individual political party and would like to see themselves participating in the process more directly but are stuck out of it because they would have to register with the party in order to vote in a primary election.
As a result of this then as a result of that alienation we think that moderates, independents, the large majority of people within most countries, are pushed out of the political process and are forced to then vote for the lesser of two evils when in reality a lot of people would be able to get behind a more centrist candidate.
Our third and final independent point though is that these elections have really low turn out and as a result in a lot of places extremely important decisions are made without the consent of the majority.
Take a state in the united states for example that consistently votes to one side or the other, say alabama.
Alabama does party based primaries so they have a republican primary and a democratic primary.
The problem is that because alabama is so firmly red the democratic primary doesn't matter.
Whoever wins that primary isn't going to win in the general.
Functionally, the republican primary is the election because the republican is going to win in such a like a uniformly conservative state but because these primaries have such lower turnout that means that you have a very small portion of the electorate participating in a very fundamental and important decision about who's going to get through, about who's going to be the next candidate.
As a result then we think that it is better to just have all the republicans in the general election to ensure the turnout is higher and that the governed are providing the most consent possible.
Proud to propose.