I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce covenant marriage.
Two independent points.
The first being that covenant marriages themselves are inherently bad agreements and that the legal structure that is provided by this type of marriage is inherently problematic.
So realistically the thing that I particularly am going to take issue with covenant marriage is the way in which it complicates divorce.
Divorce, realistically speaking, should be easy.
We think there's a couple principled reasons for this.
The first is that you want to maximize the autonomy of an individual.
People at more or less any point in time should be free to do as they choose you know with some obvious restrictions like obviously like murder is bad but for the most part we want people to be able to make decisions for themselves and when possible then we think it is in the best interest of society at large to ensure that people are free to make their own decisions.
Binding people into particular courses of action, like remaining married, is bad.
Second, we think that tough divorce proceedings make it difficult to escape abusive relationships.
Necessarily these are often it is often difficult to prove abuse in a relationship so we think allowing people the legal framework to simply leave of their own volition rather than having to go through tough court battles that are both legally difficult and emotionally difficult is an important right to afford to individuals.
Third, we think that there are property rights that are intrinsic to divorce proceedings that are often harder to flesh out ownership of like who gets what when the divorce proceeding itself is difficult.
Primarily we think that people who initiate divorce proceedings, particularly under covenant marriages, are often penalized for initiating divorce proceedings.
This again provides a barrier to divorce that we think is inherently problematic.
Fourth, we think that the individual essentially changes over time and that it is fundamentally unfair to hold the person responsible for past actions.
This is true not just because you know circumstances can change and the individual you're married to can turn out to be a different person in the long term but also because we think that your past self is a fundamentally different person from your current self.
What we mean by this is that a person is comprised of their personal preferences, interests, and opinions and really nothing more.
That is what you want is who you are and that's what makes you distinct from other people.
Given that then, we think the because preferences, desires in our fundamental identities change over time it is an unreasonable thing to assume that the actions of our past self should hold our current self liable much in the same way that we think I shouldn't be able to you know sign a contract that confines you into particular actions.
So all of these reasons it basically could demonstrate why divorce should be easy and we think it's inherently problematic that covenant marriage restricts those proceedings.
Our second independent point is that this constitutes state involvement in religion.
So we think that, obviously, religion is a private matter and that states really shouldn't endorse individual religions.
The problem with covenant marriage then, because it is so explicitly christian, is that it endorse it is a constitutes the state endorsing one particular religion and giving it elevated status in in marriage proceedings.
We think that this is inherently problematic in that the simplicity endorsement violates the separation of church and state.
Gov that claims to you that people under their religious liberty should have access to any sort of legal framework they like insofar as it is compliant with the religious beliefs.
The problem with this line is the pre-nuptial agreement solve.
We think that people can enter contracts of their own volition that put certain restrictions and additives onto their marriage.
We just don't think that it's appropriate for the state to create a separate classification for this particular form of religious agreement when it is infeasible for the state to do this for all religions individual contracts that are the better solution for achieving these desires proud to oppose.