I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should fight nationalism.
Two independent points: first is that nationalism ensures cohesion within a governing country.
So, I do want to start this off by just sort of pointing out a critical assumption that government makes, and that is that when we step away for from nationalism, we're going to embrace this sort of like globalist perspective instead, that that everyone will think of themselves as a global citizen and we will like sort of recalibrate ourselves through that frame.
I think this is unwarranted though.
I think what more realistically happens is we revert to the way things were before nationalism.
That is, every individual thinks of sort of like what's best for number one, and you get very little cohesion across people like caring about each other's interests.
So, the fundamental reason I think why, say, like someone in new york cares about the interests of someone in like california is because we have this sense of nationalism that the country, as a unit, is something that has a collective identity and that we want to ensure that our like fellow patriots or whoever also are enjoying happy lives.
This sense of community is what drives our capacity to have a functioning government that looks out for like the needs of people, in general, and not just the powerful who have the capacity to run the government, and ensure that it looks out for their interests.
So, in their world then, when you break down this sort of cohesion that exists within the national unit, you have this you lose this capacity to like actually have a government that like cares about people who aren't powerful enough to force it to look out for them.
I think that in itself is a harm, but I think secondarily, because you have these internal divisions within the countries, within the country, you get a lot of what used to happen back in like the like sixteen hundreds or earlier, sort of before this age of enlightenment, before these democratic ideals, where you have very unstable governments, because they would be dominated by people vying for individual power for, if not themselves, at least their faction, their small subset of the population.
So, people within some sort of like common factor, that have some sort of like similarity that causes them to coalesce into a faction, would vie for power with others, but not on sort of like the congenial democratic way that we see in the status quo, probably through means of violence or even if not violence, through just completely excluding them from any decision-making capacity within the government.
I think this is necessarily problematic for a lot of reasons.
There are a lot of rights being trampled on, there are a lot of harms being trampled on, there are a lot of people that are not getting their just desserts, that are not getting treated properly under this system.
So we don't condone it.
But our second independent point is that is our second independent point is that governments so the structure that by which we analyze governments on a national basis is more logical than the counterfactual world that is proposed by side opposition.
So, what I mean by this is that people are ruled, that is, their governments operate on a national basis, that individual states make decisions about the laws that will govern the people that live within them.
This globalist thinking doesn't make sense unless there is a robust international global government.
But not only does that not exist, the track records of attempts to make it exist have failed spectacularly, demonstrating that it is unlikely this will succeed in a way that makes global governance logical or feasible.
Given that, we operate in a world in which nation states dictate the laws that apply to us, and it makes sense for our identifying factor to be under the structures that govern us.
This ensures consistency in lawmaking.
It can ensures reasonability in the ways in which we engage in debates about who benefits and who does not, and it ensures that parties are best represented by people that have authority over them.
Proud to oppose.