I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt socialism.
Generally speaking we're going to define this as forms of government that institute like large amounts of taxation in order to fund like social welfare programs.
More broadly we just define this as redistribution of wealth, so we take from the rich and give to the poor and there are many means of doing this, we would endorse all of them.
Three independent points.
First socialism decreases inequality.
I think the reason why this is true is fairly intuitive that when you engage in redistributive policies you just like have a more equal society because you are taking resources away from the people that have lots of them and giving to the people that don't have a lot of them thus bringing everyone towards the center.
Four reasons why decreasing inequality is really important.
First is just fairness.
We think that generally speaking the people who are super rich in this world did so through very little of their own work.
A lot of them inherited their wealth, a lot of them got lucky, a lot of them have just have like some sort of other privilege that isn't class related like say race or gender that allowed them to get that wealth.
Generally speaking we don't think people earn the wealth they get so we're were we're willing to like inflict on the rights of like the small minority that did earn their wealth in order to make up for the vast majority of people that didn't earn their poverty.
Secondly you there is decreasing marginal utility of capital and resources.
So a hundred dollars is worth a lot more to somebody that only has a hundred dollars in the first place than it is to someone who's like a multi-trillionaire or whatever.
This is because that person with not much money already doesn't have much so not only did they see greater value in the things that they don't currently have but also the things that they would be buying with their like new money are much more fundamental to their rights.
So the super rich person sees a hundred dollars and they're like oh I'll just like get that to some charity or whatever at the most generous level.
At the worst level they're like oh well I'll buy like a really fancy cup holder for my maserati whereas the really poor person is like ih I'm gonna buy food because that's something that I generally don't get to do.
We think that disparity and how much the thing that you are getting with that money the value that it holds is something that justifies redistributive capital.
Third there's less conflict in a world with more equity.
Most global conflict over the years has been class based.
Wars between the haves and the have-nots.
Walk through the historical record but typically it is because somebody has something and somebody doesn't have something and the people that don't have it are like I want that and then there's a war over it.
So I think when you how more equity amongst people there's less conflict.
Fourth is just decrease suffering.
I think this ties back largely to the marginal utility argumentation I've made but just generally speaking suffering is exponentially worse for the poor than it is for the rich.
Given that we think we mitigate net suffering by redistributing capital to the people who need it the most.
Our second independent point is just democratic.
Look like when you have more like even resources and when you have a more even say in your society and you have communal ownership there's always going to be like more equitable voices.
We think that no individual's voice or opinion is more inherently important than another's and at that point we are willing to defend a system that strives to have equity in like participation within like the democratic system.
Like people can't just like use their money as a tool to like drown out the voices of the poor and like elections for example on our side of the house.
Our third independent point is that private property is a myth.
So all property is largely a product of other people's labor.
Like your watch even if you paid for it is a product of the labor of like some poor person in like a developing country that had to put that watch together.
We think that's unjust because generally speaking the fact that you had a couple extra bucks lying around to buy the thing doesn't justify your ownership of it when other people put more labor and put more value into that item.
Given that we think the communal ownership of objects makes more sense.
Communal ownership of like property and like land and things like that also makes more sense.
So we think of the socialist society that redistributes these items and has social like communal ownership through the state of these objects it's just inherently more logical.
Proud to propose.