I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce compulsory voting.
Three independent points, the first of which is the proactive right to not vote.
So we think that there are plenty of people who believe that not voting is not just something they do out of like laziness or apathy but rather to send a specific signal.
Gov essentially tries to, you know, the in the model by being like, " oh, well people can still show up to the polls and write like gandolf or whatever. "
But I think the problem is that for a lot of people, one example that comes to mind is some groups of anarchists actually see value in simply rejecting the legitimacy of polls themselves.
It's important to protect this right to not vote on the simple basis that voting in and of itself is a form of speech.
The reason we care about democracy is because it proxies the will of the individual people within that democracy.
So, in essence, your vote is essentially a form of speech.
It is signaling your preferences to , you know, your governing structure.
That said, then, we think it's important to protect the right to speech, including the right to not speak, on the basis that speech is not only a way to signal one's preferences, so if you decide to signal your preferences by not voting, that is within your rights, but also because it is key to one's ability to have autonomy over one's self.
We think that it's important to allow people to make decisions over what to do with their bodies and their times and what not on the basis that they and not the government understand best what is most beneficial to them.
And if to that individual the most beneficial thing is not voting, then we think it is reasonable to allow that person to not vote.
Our second independent point is that this puts a disproportionate burden on the poor.
So we think that a lot of the reason that voter turnout, particularly among poor and minority groups, is low in the status quo is a product of the fact that there are structural barriers to voting.
Things like voter ID laws are often discriminatory against minorities and restrictions on when one can go to vote are, you know, restrictive to people who work multiple jobs or have other scheduling issues that make it difficult for them to arrive at the polls.
Given that, then, I think it is unlikely that telling people you have to go is going to it'll do one of two things: either one, people simply still won't be able to go because the same structural barriers exist, in which case they're just going to get slapped with whatever penalty that gov decides to put on them, or, alternatively, will be forced to bite into the harm that was keeping them from voting, that is, missing time from work or whatever.
And that, in turn, comes with its own harms.
We think, then, that absent a comprehensive set of voter participation laws that can expand access to the ballot, we don't think that this policy is going to have the positive effects delineated by side government.
The last and probably most important thing that I want to bring up is that this policy doesn't actually increase participation in the way we want, rather it leads to a flood of underinformed voters participating in our democracy.
I think, right now, democracy largely selects for people that, you know, are in the know.
Obviously these structural barriers that keep poor minority people, who might be in the know anyway, away from the polls exist, but given that that's not going to change on side government, we think that largely what the actual meaningful change in here is a lot of people that were previously invested in the system suddenly showing up to vote.
The problem with that is that they're not proxying their preferences well if they're not properly informed on the issues of the day.
You know, if single-payer healthcare, for example, might help an individual, that person doesn't know that single-payer healthcare would help them, because they don't understand single-payer healthcare, then that person isn't necessarily going to proxy their own best interest by showing up at the polls.
Because we think that voter apathy doesn't come from like a lack of showing up to the polls physically but rather from broader disinterest in the governing structure, we don't think that this policy solves for that information gap.
And at that point, then, I think you just get a flood of underinformed voters distorting results without any real like reciprocity in actually representing the best interests of these individuals.
Proud to oppose.