I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should institute a flat tax.
Our first independent point is that flat tax is essentially regressive.
So a significant portion of government's speech is dedicated to the notion that a flat tax is better for poorer individuals.
We'll get more into the intricacies of things like loopholes and exemptions and the problems there later in this speech, but for now I want to specifically address the notion that people should be taxed at equal rates.
I think up front it's important to note the poverty is something that's actually quite expensive, and the reason for this is two fold.
First as a sort of buying in bulk capacity.
So for example, if a rich person and a poor person are to purchase pairs of shoes it is always generally a smarter investment to pair buy more expensive shoes that will last longer, because on a like long-term basis you're spending less money when you don't have to replace shoes as frequently.
The problem, of course, is that if you're poorer you just can't afford to buy the good shoes up front.
You don't have that origin point capital to actually make that investment from the get-go.
This is a problem then.
It applies to of course much more than shoes, things like you know retirement funds are also predicated on this notion.
Pretty much any good whose longevity is you know predicated on its quality is is something that's precluded to poorer individuals and as such in the long term they actually have to spend a larger proportion of their income towards buying and re-buying things or not being capable of saving for things because they didn't have that up front capital.
But the second way that poverty is necessarily harmful is to do with saving.
That is that it is generally a sound financial decision to save significant portions of one's income in order to use it for a sort of rainy day fund.
The problem is, of course, is that poor people disproportionately have to spend their money on consumption rather than saving it because of things that are fixed costs.
You have to buy food, you have to buy water, you have to pay the rent.
These aren't things that are negotiable, and as a result, you wind up paying a decent amount of your paycheck in living paycheck to paycheck, because you can't get around these expenditures.
As a result then, we see that richer individuals are able to put a significantly larger amount of their money towards things like discretionary spending that isn't necessary and as such it is principally more just to tax them at a higher percentage rate, because a higher percentage of their income is non-essential and as such, it is just like less of a rights violation to take that income than the comparatively smaller amount from poorer individuals.
So, then this gets into our second independent point, the nature of exceptions and why this is particularly a problem that's established on side government.
I think broadly speaking, they really establish one thing to begin with, which is that they're willing to keep the exemption for you know people who are it like larger families essentially and discount that way.
The problem is twofold.
One is that poorer people who live by themselves aren't helped by that excemption so if you buy the interpretation then and this is somewhat muddled that that's the only exemption they hold, than a lot of people are still getting you know pretty harmed significantly by this policy.
But I think the second interpretation that actually because it's never explicitly said they actually just leave all the exemptions in place is an even bigger issue, because this now means that tax evasion still occurs through loopholes of wealthy individuals.
The reason why wealthy people are able to avoid taxes more effectively is because essentially they can afford accountants and other financial planners and managers that understand the tax system intricately enough to facilitate that evasion.
The problem then is that the loopholes are still existing on side government side probably and as such this means now that you have the same scenarios in the status quo but there's a lower base.
That in turn means that in order to keep the tax code revenue neutral the base for everybody has to raise that in turn means that rich people are able to continue avoiding taxes at an easier and easier rate pushing the base down while the base has to raise to make up for the revenue loss there.
That in turn means a disproportionately higher burden on people that can't afford you know fancy accountants and as such makes for a regressive policy.
Proud to oppose.