I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban capital punishment.
First an overview about what the purpose of the criminal justice system is.
I think insofar as government hangs their hat pretty extensively on the notion that capital punishment is morally reprehensible because it involves the taking of a human life, it's important to recognize that the purpose of the criminal justice system isn't to service the people that have been convicted guilty of crimes, it's to service the innocent.
Our primary point of having a criminal justice system in the first place is to say look we recognize that there are people who have done harm to others in society that have enacted suffering, and there are people who have been the victims of suffering and our purpose is to a, reduce the number of people who are victims of suffering and b, to ensure that those who have been the victims of suffering get their due, get justice.
We think that the capital punishment can often serve both of these functions very well and as such, should be kept in place.
So our first independent point is that capital punishment constitutes a form of deterrence which then decreases the number of course of future crimes and acted upon people who are innocent.
If you know that the potential punishment you can get for a crime is capital punishment, something that is irreversible, something that is literally the worst thing you can imagine, absent like torture or something that would just be like blatantly unconstitutional, we think that that's the most significant way that you can keep people from doing bad things that would send them to jail.
For a lot of people the thing that keeps you from doing something bad and inflicting harm upon another isn't going to be just like the knowledge that this is an immoral action, but rather the knowledge that like if I kill this person I might be sentenced to the death penalty.
We think that life in prison it carries less weight because it seem not just as irreversible but also that there's more of a gut feeling associated with it as being truly awful.
As a result, we think that less people are likely to commit heinous crimes that are worthy of the death penalty like say murder and as such, less innocent people will have suffering inflicted upon them.
Our second independent point is that the is that capital punishment constitutes neutralization of people who might recidivate.
So we think that even with something like say a life sentence you are likely to have people who either get just like break out of jail or alternatively you have people with like slightly lesser sentences that just live long enough re-released into society.
We think the problem with this alternative to the death penalty then is that these people can recidivate.
That is that they can commit this crime again.
We think this is especially likely in cases where the death penalty is enacted specifically because the basis for giving the death penalty is often a feeling on the part of the judge and of those present like in the jury that you cannot rehabilitate this person.
That either through just showing no remorse or through admission that they'll like I don't do the crime again, any number of things that can happen in a courtroom, that there is a likelihood of recidivism that justifies permanent neutralization.
We think that any other penalty therefore, one that is necessarily less permanent will always mean that that person has not been neutralized and that there's a possibility that they can commit this crime again.
We think that when you are looking at particularly heinous crimes then, the benefit of insuring that an innocent will not be harmed again is definitely high enough to justify a death penalty.
Our third and final point is retribution.
We believe that is important for the criminal justice system to give a sense of justice to those who have been wrong to say look, this person that caused you suffering is also experiencing suffering.
We recognize that like an eye for an eye makes the whole world go blind or whatever, but at the end of the day, it's important to have a system that can say this is right and this is wrong and we are going to ensure that people who did wrong receive a roughly requisite amount of harm inflicted upon them.
At that point then, we think that it's important to have the death penalty to ensure that there is some level of proportional punishment and to ensure that there is some capacity for the criminal justice system to give those who have been wronged their justice or their due.
Proud to oppose.