I'm proud to stand proposition of today's motion, that we should abandon big government.
I think a little bit vague, but there are three conceptions I see of what this motion means, and I'm going to defend all three of them.
First, that libertarianism is an ideal that we should embrace within our governmental structures, secondly, that we should delegate authority to the most local forms of government and generally municipalities or states, if that's not possible, and thirdly that red tape is bad.
So on the first of these conceptions, that libertarianism is something we should pursue in public policy.
The basis of this is that autonomy on an individual level is a good thing.
It is the most fundamental right that we have, and is the reason why we care about our other rights, things like our right to life we care about, because when we are alive, that enables us to make decisions that allow us to pursue a path that we pine to be utile, right?
Like, we maximize this when possible, it is the most basic thing that we care about is freedom.
So, why do we maximize this when possible, and at the governmental level?
Two reasons, first is that people on an individual level know what's best for them.
The goal of the government at a large level is just to make people as happy as they can, to decrease suffering and maximize pleasure.
People, on an individual level, though know what will do that for them.
So generally, when there are constraints on their actions, people are less capable of making the decisions that would make them happiest.
But secondly, we would maximize this, simply because it is well within the scope of the motion, to just limit people's freedom, when there are significant third party harms, right?
Like, I don't think big government, or small government rather, means that you can't criminalize murder, or things like that right?
So given that, I think it's totally reasonable to stay within the scope of the world, where in significant third party harms aren't going to be something that we would legalize.
Second independent point is delegating authority to municipal levels.
We should do this for two reasons, first is that the municipal level has a better knowledge of personal need.
So, in the same way that I as an individual know what I want, my municipality is more likely to know what the people living within the municipality would like, rather than the federal government, trying to approximate that for each individual municipality around the country.
So, you have more efficient decision making.
But secondly, it's more democratic, because you don't have the outside influence, that actually , so, for example like, people in one state that don't like a policy, that the majority of the country does, have the ability to regulate their own day to day interactions.
Again, I think we would be fine with delegating authority to higher levels when it is issues like say, interstate trade, that really can't be done on a piecemeal level, but when possible, we should direct decision making down to the most local level, because these are the agencies that are most capable of dealing with these issues head on, and in a way that actually approximates the will of the people that occupy those areas.
Our third third independent point is that red tape is something that is bad.
So, I think two things under this, the first is that generally individual people are pretty good at solving their own issues, right?
Like, generally government subsidies, and things like that, might help to a small extent, but for the large majority of things, there are services you can buy, there are people you can talk to, there are ways that people can figure out their day to day issues.
But secondly is that the problem is that, when you regularly industries to such a significant degree, as exists in the status quo, you create barriers that actually harm people on a day to day basis.
Things like basic important services, like transporting medical goods, which is slowed down by like tight border regulations, things like that, we deem these to be bad, because it creates inefficiencies within markets, and inefficiencies within human interaction, that would be completely eradicated if you didn't have these onerous regulations.
We think a world without those barriers to free action is significantly better, insofar as it decreases human suffering, and allows people to make the best decisions possible for themselves.
Proud to propose.