I'm proud to support the motion that we should cancel pride parades.
So our first independent point is that pride parades hold a high risk of hate crimes.
I think generally when you're talking about ways for a marginalized population to express some sort of political message or gain some sort of visibility, you have an inherent trade off that that visibility can often be associated with hate crimes are other forms of like oppressive attempts to hold that group down.
You know like any number of civil rights protests throughout the sixties demonstrate this trade off.
We think then that it makes sense for attempts at greater visibility and attempts at protest to be conducted in a way that minimizes risk to the participants.
This is true not just because it is obviously like bad when people are assaulted, but also because it is specifically harmful for the group.
Because assaults at a systemic recurring and targeted sense, such as at yearly pride parades, can have a chilling effect on members of the community being willing to speak up about the violence that they are facing.
Given that then, we think that pride parades are disproportionately likely to be targets for hate crimes because of the large number of people of the oppressed class being in like that one location at the same time.
Something like a mass shooting or even just like a group of people going through it like, I don't know, punching people in the face is a lot easier to conduct when you just have all of your victims in this one concentrated location.
Given that then, we think that other forms of protest are much more effective ways of ensuring that these hate crimes aren't going to hold back incidents of protests.
Our second independent point is that pride parades make it difficult for for the LGBT community to have some sort of like tight control over media narrative.
When you're talking about an oppressed group, that is you're trying to talk about the abuses they face on a day to day basis and assert their rights their right to equality, things like that, it is important to have some sort of control over the the way in which the media is going to portray you.
This is intuitively true on the basis that you know you just don't want a bad spin, but the tightness is particularly important because you don't want like radical or like just generally like mean sections of your community to become the face of it.
I think of a good example of this recently happening was a pride parade, I believe last year, that told like a group of like jewish gay people that they could not march in the parade because they were carrying the jewish flag and that they deem that like the israeli flag to be a hate symbol, because of the organizers' allegiance with like justice in palestine groups.
We think that these sacks then wind up getting like the majority of the media attention in the wake of pride, and instead of the ideal narrative work being about like: " look, like gay communities are standing up to oppression and bigotry ", increased visibility discussions about the ways in which gay people are marginalized, like that sort of thing, instead the conversation just becomes like: " the LGBT community is antisemitic ".
So we think then that the inability of a parade to have a centralized and controlled narrative undermines the political goals of the community.
Our third and final independent point is inclusion and exclusion within these events.
So we think then that this is like particularly important as to what the alternative type of like visibility is.
We think that the counter factual to parades is something like say concentrated media appearances by people in like nonprofits or advocacy groups, things like that.
More direct media appearances and interfacing.
The difference here is that parades by nature are organized by central committees that are often made up of established members of the community.
So we think that in the gay community this is likely to be like a lot of like white gay men, which is sort of like the old guard of, like especially in like city centers in urban areas where these parades tend to happen, is like the old guard of the gay community.
We think that these parades are disproportionately unlikely to be managed by like a more intersectional group, like say like gay women of color for example.
But advocacy groups, by virtue of the newness of their foundation, are more likely to be more representative of the community as a whole.
As a result then we prefer these other forms of media interfacing.
Proud to propose.