I'm proud to stand a proposition of the motion that we should ban international adoption.
Three independent points: first is that the primary obligation of the government is to orphans at a domestic level, and that those are much more easily easily helped through a traditional adoption system.
So first, why is the government's primary obligation to domestic babies?
Would say that the social contract, that is the implicit understanding between the government and those who are governed, is based on the notion of citizenship or just like geographic basis, that the reasons that you the government has an obligation to protect you, stem from the fact that the people within that geographic territory create that government and are therefore only accountable to the people in that territory.
While we don't object to the principle of a government helping children from another country, what we object to is the zero sum nature of it.
That when you allow adoption at an international level, that is a zero sum decision.
Because a parent is like: " I'm going to adopt a baby ".
And they decide to adopt one from the other side of the planet rather than within the home country.
That's a problem because there is immense suffering at orphanages and that -ike at the domestic level.
Like, even in wealthy western liberal democracies conditions are still poor in the foster system.
Abuse is rampant, food security is low, there is definitive suffering that is intrinsic to poverty and instability and an unstructured life, and we think that if you can alleviate that suffering for people with in your own country, that the government has an obligation to incentivize protection of those individuals.
Given that, we object to international on the adoption on the basis that it mitigates the rate at which domestic adoption occurs.
Our second independent point is that there is a racist undertone to international adoption that encourages the fetishization of specific races.
So we think like a really clear example of this is when people make a point of like picking up, say, like asian children as children that they for underlying racist reasons believe are just like genetically superior.
Now I think the underpinnings of this, that it's just like a bizarre mildly racist thing, are probably bad but not necessarily bad enough to justify a ban.
Where this gets particularly problematic is that when you have that adverse incentive and that increased demand that results from that adverse incentive, you have black markets that are designed in trafficking these children.
That international adoption actually incentivizes illicit groups like like cartels and the like to actually like abduct children and then pose them as children that are due for international adoption.
We think that the existence of this market then creates massive suffering in separating children from their families and that the united states should not permit participation within that market.
Our third independent point is that it's a bad means of alleviating suffering.
So I think this is important that adoption, while the lineup is really clear you can see how it alleviates suffering for a child in dire straits, it's not particularly effective when compared to other things.
That is, foster systems, because of their scale, for a x amount of money, are much much much more capable of actually helping these children.
That orphanages even though they do not look fantastic, are much more capable of alleviating the suffering that occurs on a mass scale.
So what we say is the preferable system is that if you want to help children in other countries, if you believe they are experiencing mass suffering and that they would be better off in like a developed country or a western liberal democracy, then what you should be doing is allowing them to enter public sector systems like orphanages, like the foster care system, that allow for helping the most children with the smallest amount of money.
Then if you want children to achieve like the heights that are options through adoption, then you can adopt out of that domestic system.
But adopting them straight from international countries is wildly inefficient and mitigates the amount of good that we can do with our money.
Proud to propose.