I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should ban international adoption.
Two independent points: first is that international adoption poses a mechanism for saving children particularly in the third world from immense quantities of suffering.
I want to start out with just noting what gov tells us in terms of the social contract.
That your first obligation is to your own citizens.
On that, I just think the justification for the the social contract is thin at best.
Recognize that this is a more or less imaginary thing.
That this is based upon a pretty arbitrary standard, like tax payment isn't a meaningful reason to affirm obligation at the point where these are children and they're not paying taxes.
Also there's lots of people in this country that don't pay taxes because they're not making enough money to pay taxes or things like that.
Like I just think it's worth recognizing that there isn't like a meaningful pass back between the government and its citizens for a large portion of the citizenry at which paying taxes is the meaningful tipping point into whether or not you have an obligation to protect an individual.
Given that, I think the standard we should adopt is just whether or not an action reduces suffering on the net.
That is if you have the capacity to take children out of active war zones and put them in a place where they are safe, where they are secure, where they're going to have like structure on a day to day basis, I think that is just a thing that makes the world a better place.
So let's talk about those extreme examples then.
Because I think this does necessarily outweigh really all of the harms they talk about.
Like when gov tells you, oh well there's like cultural harms like, sure we'll bite that in exchange for taking people out of the syrian war.
So generally speaking, these children don't have access to a lot of the things they need.
Things like food, things like water, things like actual shelter.
Given that, we create a mechanism by which international couples can actually take these children out of the suffering that they are experiencing.
Recognize that the comparative that they establish on their side of the house, that you take people out of a failing adoption system in the US is, to be fair, still a net positive, but in the comparative that is when I line that up next to the people that are suffering in the third world and in war zones, this is comparatively less suffering.
Oliver twist, as heartbreaking as it is, is clearly not as extreme a situation as the situations that are faced abroad by many, many, many millions of children.
So I think on the net then we reduce net suffering and I think that is a much more reasonable standard by which to adjudicate this debate.
On my second independent point, that it allows more autonomy for parents.
So I think the warrant for why this is true is pretty intuitive.
That you just give parents more options, that you're not placing restriction on what children they can adopt, and given that we are comfortable saying that parents have for freedom on our side of the house.
So why does that matter?
Well, parents have an obligation to basically deal with and raise this child for eighteen years.
Given that, we think when you can give them the choice over who they are raising, obviously with like childbirth this isn't necessarily an option, but when it's an option you should present it.
We should give parents as much choices they can over who they are going to adopt, over what their life will look like for the next eighteen years.
I think putting a ban on international adoption then more or less reduces the pool.
Gov's preemption of this is sometimes this choice is made for problematic reasons like parents like just want a child of a specific race for reasons that are perhaps onerous.
I think a, this is probably like a pretty slim amount of people like genuine racists probably will not adopt internationally, but also I think generally speaking you can just link this back to the suffering argument that sure, if you just like really, really want a syrian kid for reasons that are maybe a bit problematic, like I think that's just outweighed by the fact that they won't have to live in a war zone anymore.
Proud to oppose.