I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should end affirmative action.
Three independent points.
First is that affirmative action corrects for historic imbalances.
So, long after actual injustices against a specific population occur, think, for example, slavery in the united states, the effects of that large injustice are usually still felt.
And the reason for this is that these the nature of cyclical poverty makes it very difficult to escape the well that the initial disenfranchisement put these these like groups in in the first place.
So, for example, with slavery in the united states, post-slavery, many black americans struggled to find employment, because they didn't have skills, because they didn't have capital to like get food security and home security and things like that.
And these problems trickle along throughout generations for incredibly long periods of time.
If your family doesn't have any money, you grow up poor and then you are also disproportionately likely to be poor the rest of your life, something that your children will then inherit for you.
This makes it incredibly difficult, after the actual baseline injustice has stopped, to see some sort of equity within society.
Because of that, you need policies, like affirmative action, to break that cycle, to actively take people from oppressed classes and give them advantages and opportunities that they admittedly might not have actually like done things affirmatively to earn, but it make sure that the future generations aren't treated equitably as result of historic injustices.
Our second independent point is that subtle hiring biases mean that there actually is still modern discrimination that needs to be corrected for.
So, things like general stereotypes, so like stereotypes about like women being like weaker, passive stereotypes about blacks being like, you know, really aggressive or criminals.
These types of subtle like forms of discrimination and these stereotypes create hiring imbalances and create pay imbalances within the workplace.
So we think that there isn't like affirmative need to correct for that imbalance by imposing a policy that requires corporations to actually prioritize admission of those oppressed classes.
This then helps to like actually deal with that imbalance.
Gov tells you that these benefits always then accrue to the wealthiest people within these classes.
So it doesn't actually do much to help.
I think there's a problem here, though, because even if it is even if that is true, even if like all of this just accrues to like the hillary clintons and the ben or like it's not even ben carson's a good example, but like the hillary clintons and like like, I don't know, name person, like black person that was born wealthy as well, then like you still put people in positions of power that are less likely to engage in discriminatory hiring practices.
Like even if hillary clinton herself isn't the person that needs to benefit from an affirmative hiring practice, then the people that hillary clinton will then not discriminate against, because she herself is a woman, are the people that will benefit through this practice.
So there is still then a large degree of actually mitigating the effects of current biases and forms of oppression.
Our third independent point, and this is more just sort of like a defensive thing, is that when gov tells you about backlash, I don't think that should ever be an affirmative reason to not engage in a policy.
The reason for this is because any form of progress is always going to face backlash.
Like the fundamental reason why people don't want to engage with policies that prop up historically oppressed classes is because these jobs, these college admissions, these paychecks, they're all zero-sum.
It has to come out of somewhere else.
So, the comparative position of like white men is always going to decrease when you engage in these policies, when you engage in anything that props up a historically marginalized class.
As a result of that, I don't think you can ever use backlash as a justification for why you shouldn't engage in a policy, because anything that is an objective good and correcting for this for this injustice will be frowned upon by like white men.
Proud to oppose.