I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abandon big government.
Specifically, as gov does, we're going to take this from a perspective of saying that government oh question of whether government should be centralized at a federal level or more localized.
And obviously we will be defending a large federal government.
Our first independent point and I think this cuts to a lot of the misperceptions that are present in gov's case is that corruption is and other like problematic practices are easier to get away with at a local level.
Specifically the thesis of a lot of what is told to you by side government is that at the local level you our best understanding of you our best capable of understanding the preferences of your constituents because you were more closely connected to them and as such you are better capable of representing them.
There is further explanation of how federal bureaucracies are inefficient because of their stagnant nature and the difficulty of challenging the existing power structures.
The problem with all of this is that local governments are often dynastic, riddled with nepotism, and inflexible to change.
Boston for example is very, very like tribalistic.
It's based on like who your friends are, which political camp you're in, that sort of thing.
And then based on who is the mayor at the time, like that's whose allies get government jobs.
So I think then, as opposed to where as the federal government there is often more splitting of power between parties and there is like less nepotism because people have been in these positions for longer and something like seniority is more likely to determine who gets a certain job, there is significantly just better representation because the jobs are done by more qualified people.
But fundamentally, we think that this type of corruption that is rampant at local levels is significantly problematic in the capacity of the government to fairly represent the interests of individuals.
Because there is a lot of inside baseball that determines operations, and you have to be friends with the people that are in power to get things done, there's a lack of responsiveness to large portions of the population.
Turnout in municipal elections are quite low, and as such, a fraction of the population is genuinely represented by the individuals running these governments.
So we think that it is problematic then when more power than is absolutely necessary is afforded to these inappropriately run levels of government.
Our second independent point is intervention capacity.
At the federal level, there are more resources to deal with big picture issues.
So we think then that the federal government is better equipped to deal with significant issues.
For example, in like you know fighting crime for example, the FBI just has better resources to deal with things like you know fraud, racketeering, a lot of white collar crime.
So even if this happens at a municipal level, like even if it's internal to new york city for example, we still think that the federal government should have the capacity to intervene in these issues because these are things that the federal government just has more resources to deal with.
That centralization of resources then is important to ensuring that there are qualified investigators and resources utilized towards you know actually working with these issues, even if it happens on a local level.
Our third independent point is consistency.
So we think that, broadly speaking, there is a problem in a lot of areas where power is delegated to the lower levels, that there is inconsistency across states and even municipalities, and that this in turn creates a lot of confusion.
Especially when it is in-state inconsistency in laws and application of those laws.
There is difficulty then in crossing what are often arbitrary municipal boundaries and trying to conduct business between you know different sets of regulations.
This in turn creates a system of government that is you know unfriendly to business and unfriendly to individuals, is unnecessarily bureaucratic, and is unnecessarily complicated.
Centralization and broader standardization of those you know methods makes more sense because people's lives often don't occur within one clean set of municipal boundaries.
Proud to oppose.