I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that private universities should be banned.
Three independent points.
First is that private universities by their nature often engage in predatory practices.
I think there's extreme examples of this of course you know for profit universities for example are notorious for this things like you know phoenix university which has had a slew of issues in terms of engaging in predatory practices where they promised much higher returns on investment than they actually deliver, that they are a for profit model and as such act the way that a company should.
But even nonprofit private universities still engage in predatory extortionary practices quite often.
Their incentives might not necessarily be to cut a profit but the structural reason why for profit institutions know do these things that are problematic can line up with nonprofit universities as well.
For example nonprofit universities might care very deeply about increasing their ranking and you know like college rankings at the national level so they might take steps to exclude students that are poorer out of risk out of fear of the fact that they might bring down the graduation rate of the school.
These are you know really problematic behaviors that we think that universitys' first priority should always be to ensure education for you know everybody at that university in a proper and quality education.
That's the priority said is best met by public universities because they're not accountable to you know shareholdersor board members or anything like that and as a result are most free to act with that mission intact.
Our second independent point is that by moving students from the private universities all into public universities you solve for the under investment problem that's currently plaguing public universities.
In the status quo, the majority of students in countries that allow them go to private universities.
There are some exceptions to this but if you look to the US for example which has a high amount of college students most of the students are at private universities especially when you look at the top tier of students.
This means in turn that there isn't a significant amount of public investment in the public universities because there just isn't as much demand for it.
However if suddenly everybody becomes reliant on the public university system to receive their degrees in link into their you know their long term prospects of receiving gainful employment, then I think becomes a lot more likely that you actually have a public university system that is properly invested in because that political pressure now exists.
Likewise I think if you just look to the status quo, one of the principal reasons that public universities are under invested in this because the stigma that surrounds their student base.
Racial stereotypes and class stereotypes dominate the discussion around these universities as you know not being worth the investment because their low graduation rates and things like that.
I think if you then you know shift away from that and you make them just sort of something that everybody goes through, there are a lot less likely to be stigmatized at that regard.
Our third independent point is contact theory, that is that when you get rid of the private universities you get rid of the segregation that currently exists within the college system.
I think right now a lot of people look at colleges as a great equalizer where people get to meet people from different backgrounds it's this wonderful experience where you know you wind up in very diverse circles as a result of the fact that everyone has brought together under this roof.
The problem though is that this is this is false that really you're not all being brought under one roof because the exorbitant price of a lot of private institutions, even the nonprofit ones, prohibits a lot of like genuinely impoverished students from achieving access to these universities.
This then is a serious problem because the contact theory that's supposed to be playing out on our campuses doesn't actually play out.
You have segregation really on class lines between public and private universities.
Housing all of these students under one roof then in the public system will allow for a much more genuine genuine intermingling, you have more contact between classes, you have that exposure to diversity that a lot of universities do seem to really prioritize right now.
Proud to propose.