I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban tower blocks.
Are first independent point is that tower blocks decrease home costs.
This is true for two reasons.
First is margins.
So when you you know basically the main cost associated with building homes is two things.
One, is buying the land and two, is building the property.
So with regards to you know that you know actually buying land, there's obviously you know when you can build more units on the same amount of land those costs could become something you can distribute more evenly across individuals and as such, on a per apartment or per home basis, you can essentially reduce the individual cost of the apartments.
With regard to the construction, this is something that is essentially an economy of scale.
That because you're you know using a smaller set of resources, you're buying in bulk, that sort of thing, you can essentially bring down again the cost of the individual units which ensures greater affordability.
The second reason though that we think that these tower blocks decrease home costs links into really what is talked about the end of gov's speech specifically with regards to these arguments regarding retrofitting old apartments and how older apartments once the amenities become out of date, become low income housing.
We think that it's easier to retrofit tower blocks though because a lot of the services are centralized.
So having like in building laundry for example is a lot easier when instead of one developer over like dozens and dozens of buildings having to put machines in every building, they just put the machines in the basement of that one big high-rise and solve for that amenity issue.
So we think that retrofitting amenities then in these apartments is much easier and much more cost effective.
All this is important then because it ensures that housing costs can remain low in cities.
We think that the single biggest issue for low income individuals in cities is housing costs and specifically the fact that as richer people have trouble paying for housing in certain areas, often these like lower upper middle these like lower upper class people or these upper middle class people will often move into surrounding neighborhoods gentrify them and push poorer people further and further out of the city center.
This is a problem of course then and we think that keeping housing costs low at all levels of income can help solve for this.
Our second independent point regards centralization.
So we think that tower blocks are good because it crowds a large number of people into a smaller space and specifically we think that this level of density is good because it ensures that the services that government is so concerned about at the beginning of the speech are easier to access something like a hospital for example.
The real problem is in like insuring that people in like a tower block region can get to the hospital near them.
Usually you just build power blocks near where the hospital that was built back in the fifties already is.
The real issue is that when you have people that are like way out in the boonies that have to drive up into the city to get to the hospital like that that's the service problem.
So we think that when you build tower blocks, you incentivize building hospitals in like the areas where the towers are being built and as such, have an incentive to increase access to services but furthermore, we think that we solve for the density issue that is having people drive all the way into the city by just crowding more people in towards the center and insuring that they're more capable of accessing the services that they were previously going to have to drive a long distance to access.
Our third and final independent point is regarding sort of like city revenue streams.
We think the tower blocks have basically better tax revenue bringing forward to the city because there's more units associated with them but also mitigation funds.
In boston, for example, a large number the towers that have been built recently were associated with the so called mitigation fund where the developer would actually pay a cash payment to the city to offset sort of the like nimby harms associated with building a tower and as such, then the government would then use those funds to fund like parks or you know low income housing that sort of thing.
So we think that there are broad social benefits then brought forward by the money infused into the city by the development of these tower blocks.
Proud to oppose.