I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abandon social media.
I do want to clarify that this isn't you know something that we're going to approach from a policy standpoint, we won't ban it the motion is essentially just that we would like to see this used less widely.
So three independent points.
The first is that social media has driven a decrease in personal contact and developing relationships between people.
And what I mean by this is that you know historically the way in which we establish our relationships and we establish our you know interpersonal communication is largely a product of actual physical interaction that we you know have conversations with people and what not.
And I think it's problematic then when that personal contact and that personal interaction sees a decline because what it signifies is firstly a lack of investment in that social contact which holds its own value in terms of you know getting to know a person but also it it it facilitates worse communication.
There's something lost when you try to communicate with an individual over the internet or over any sort of impersonal medium.
You know texting in is included because that that emotion things like like you know hand motions and vocal intonation are just lost when you have that that that impersonal conversation.
I think that then sort of undermines the quality of our interpersonal relationships to a large extent.
But in the most you know over the top examples of this you can see are the vitriol that's often really characteristic of social media.
People having very very confrontational discussions about things that are pretty mundane just because they don't see the other person's face.
That lack of personal connection drives a lot of drives a lot of animosity that people you know and especially when anonymous behind a computer screen are allowing to much more comfortable being much more confrontational and that in turn you know causes a lot of discomfort and causes a lot of problems around you know interpersonal communication that can actually drive a lot of what is really becoming a very confrontational society especially in the west now with you know looking at political situations particularly.
Our second independent point is that social media drives unrealistic standards.
I think instagram is a really good example of this where people will off to display their lives through social media and it's created this this culture that encourages people to you know basically express themselves as being very decadent and happy with everything that's happening to them because there's this need to have an outward facing personality that you know projects you as being successful and being happy with everything that's going on.
There's no there's no ability really to express discomfort with your life or to express any sort of vulnerability really to people that are even exceptionally close to you and that's a problem.
It means that people you know aren't as comfortable discussing their insecurities that often those insecurities than fester because they're not being raised in a society that is you know comfortable with being frank about these types of things.
I think that stepping away for the technology that enables that type of culture enables that kind of outward face that can be so superficial and can be so deeply unrepresentative of what you are actually experiencing in your life would go a long way towards solving that.
Our last point just quickly is about employment harms, that having such a public life and being encouraged to have a such a public life can really undermine your capacity to find employment.
This is something that you know employers would like to think basically that you know you are this purist that isn't that doesn't engage in like drinking on the weekends and things like that but this can be a serious issue in certain industries where you your online record really undermines your ability to find employment in the long term and I think the problem with this particular we're drawing a lot of consenting into these harms is that people just don't understand especially at a young age the posting certain things online really does generate long term harms for them.
Proud to propose.