I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should ban slum tourism.
Our first independent point is that this is an industry that can bring much needed capital into poorer regions.
So specifically we think that slum tourism, we'll take the example of brazilian favelas that gov puts forward, is that you infuse capital into areas that desperately need it.
Gov insists that people you know don't actually utilize the services that are rooted in that particular neighborhood.
I think this is a poor representation of slum terrorism.
In fact, although it is disingenuous, people will often try to you know buy food from a local market or something or by some like trinket or whatever so that they feel that they had an authentic experience.
Whether or not this experience is truly authentic is more or less irrelevant, what matters is that they are like buying things and infusing capital into a region that is, into neighborhoods particularly, that are extremely resource poor.
Gov then tries to compare this to particularly more traditional tourism in wealthier parts of the same cities.
The problem with this is twofold.
One, I don't think it's zero sum.
Usually slum tourism is something that is like you take a day out of your trip to whatever city to go see the favelas but secondly, I think the issue is that even if this is a direct tradeoff, that instead of spending lots of money in the wealthy parts of the city versus spending a comparatively smaller amounts of money in the slums, I think what actually matters here is that you're targeting that spending to the part of the city that needs it.
Like brazil has a horrifyingly high income inequality and the traditional tourism then usually goes to pad the pockets of people that live in wealthy areas downtown that are not you know in need of more money.
Given that, I think the more effective way to utilize the tourism industry, as such that it brings money to those who are suffering the most in need the most resources, is to engage in some sort of slum tourism that infuses the capital directly to the neighborhoods that are struggling the most.
Our second independent point is that slum tourism increases awareness of suffering.
Gov tries to portray the way in which slum tourism works as something where people essentially show up in the neighborhood, they take their pictures, they leave and they never think about it again.
I think there are certainly lots of people that this is a fair description of.
The problem is that debate happens on the margins and the comparative is a world where nobody entered this like where nobody entered this neighborhood and none of these people became particularly aware of the visceral suffering that is occurring there.
The problem then is that even if a few people see this suffering directly up front and empathize with it in a way that inspires them to go into action and maybe like donate to some nice effective charities or simply volunteer their time while they're there, I think this on the margins is better than the world where poverty, as gov puts it, remains out of sight and out of mind.
If people are never forced to directly confront this type of suffering face to face, they aren't particularly aware of it and as a result they're unlikely to act in ways that benefit the people that are currently suffering.
Given that, we support a system that puts more people into direct contact with these worlds.
Our third independent point is freedom of movement.
We believe that tourists do have a proactive right to visit these neighborhoods on the basis that freedom of movement is just something that we defend as a right.
So I think why freedom of movement matters is sort of two fold.
One is that people have a proactive right to sort of see as much of the world as they can within their you know within the constraints of their budget essentially.
We think that there are particular benefits that we've more or less explained already in this speech that stem from people experiencing new worlds and cultures.
But secondly we think that it's important to ensure that there's never restrictions on where people can go, exempting of course private property.
Given that, we think that this, essentially, depending on how it's implemented, this ban constitutes a restriction of freedom of movement and that in essence makes it unjust.
Proud to oppose.