I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should cancel the affordable care act.
Three independent points.
First is that reform is preferable.
So I really want to establish that the general trajectory of most legislation in the united states is reform if there are like individual things you can nitpick about it.
Throughout gov speech we sort of here like here's like one thing that's kind of wrong with it here's another thing that's kind of wrong with it but there's not really like a broad overarching justification for why the entire system is unusable.
So if your objection is that like individual insurers engage in practices that are abusive then you like regulate those practices or you give them incentives to not engage in those practices.
If there are not enough insurers in the market you give them incentives to join the market.
There are ways that you can tweak the health care law to fix for individual problems but holistically I think what I'm going to do in this speech is defend why the legislation on the whole is a good idea.
So this brings me to my second independent point that the affordable care act helps the very sick.
So generally speaking I don't think we should blame people for having diseases.
This often is not something that is in our control and even when it is something that's in our control it's usually something that we weren't able to predict reasonably because of a lack of education or because we were poor like there are even in situations where someone like knowingly contracted the disease I am just comfortable defending a system of government that reduces not suffering.
So given that two ways in which the affordable care act protected these individuals that gov would take away.
The first is protecting pre-existing conditions.
So these are people that are born with something often genetic like I don't know say like like sickle cell anemia or something that would often be charged extremely high premiums by insurers because their pre-existing condition made their coverage very expensive as gov mentions insurance works like a betting pool.
So insurers generally are not going to bake take very like like cautious bets on on people with preexisting conditions.
Obama care prevented that.
It told insurers that you cannot charge people different premiums for pre-existing conditions and this was important because it meant that people who like had these pre-existing conditions and still have access to like rights and things like that who were not discriminated against and we're not robbed blind by virtue of something that was out of their control.
But secondly obama care helped extremely sick individuals and extremely poor individuals by insuring that there would be some level of redistribution within the system.
Gov specifically is upset that like young healthy people are harmed by the system.
We are willing to bite that harm it because the trade off is that older people who are not as healthy are extremely benefited by the system.
The ways in which it harms younger people is that it just makes them pay some money that they normally wouldn't have paid that they have to enter the insurance pool.
This is essentially a tax we are fine with taxing people if it means that we prevent millions of deaths on a yearly basis.
This seems like a reasonable tradeoff.
Our third independent point though is that the future progress of the american healthcare system is presumably towards a more liberal inclusive system.
If not single payer healthcare something that is it least more of an effort at universal coverage than the status quo.
The problem and I don't think gov ever seems to sort of contend with this in their speech is that repealing the AC a would insure that this like sort of progress is doomed that because generally the way we think about politics is if something moving us to the left failed we just don't go in that direction for a long time and AC a repeal would ensure a shift to the right that would be long lasting and result in serious amounts of harm for the poor and sick and elderly.
Proud to oppose.