I'm proud to stand proposition of today's motion that year round schooling should be implemented.
So for the model, I think this is fairly straightforward that you're going to consent into summer school, so it's not going to be this thing that's mandatory for all children, so like the model for year round schooling that exists right now, is essentially just that there are summer schools that exist for multiple purposes, whether that be as a thing for kids who are behind on their classes to catch up with their classmates or if it's a thing where kids that want to get ahead in sort of graduate early can do that, or any multitude of reasons why an individual might want to engage in year round schooling, but the point being that it is a thing you consent into.
Three independent points under this: first is that choice is good and that there are individuals it works for, and the individuals that it doesn't work for don't have to engage in the system.
Secondly, that it increases educational opportunity and educational benefits and the quality of education, and third that it is a more efficient system.
So first under notice of like why choice is good.
Recognize that this is a thing that doesn't like harm you if you do not engage in it, right?
There are obviously going to be kids that this doesn't work for, that they are kids that need sort of that like unstructured time during the summer where they're not in school, right?
Those people don't have to engage in year round schooling, right?
Like the people who are going to engage in year round schooling are most likely going to be people that, you know, like failed a class and want to graduate on time, because there are like structural reasons why they need to do that regarding like their employment or like their college aspirations or things like that, right?
There are kids who are just like extremely smart and want to get ahead, or like their parents want to get them ahead or whatever.
Insofar as there are legitimate reasons why individuals would want to use this type of schooling, it is always better to give them the option to do that and then allow people that it wouldn't work for to consent out of the system.
Second independent point is it's better education.
So this is true because it breaks like the severing that occurs in the learning process with a large summer break, right?
This is especially true for multi year classes like in new york state for example, where world history is taught over the course of two years.
So when you sever your your learning like that, when you have like a large break in the middle of your educational career, essentially, and there's this huge break between when you're learning about these things, it mentally distances you from the subject you were learning.
You are coming back in the fall very rusty, like not as accustomed a school, it's like this almost foreign thing to you a lot of the time, where it takes like a while to get back into the swing of things.
That creates like a lot of inefficiencies in the system, but it also decreases your retention of the things that you learn in the long term because it's not a constant source of information coming to you.
There are large breaks in the middle of it.
So that's a problem for the quality of your education, and we think we should allow people to consent into a system that gives them a better education.
The third independent point is efficiency.
So, this breaks down in two ways: the first is that, in three ways rather.
The first is that by breaking that severing in the learning process you increase the educational efficiency because you don't have to backtrack and like reteach things and things like that when people come back into the system.
Secondly, it gives kids more structure in the summer, right?
So like a lot of the time you would have, you have like literally entire industries dedicated to like keeping kids entertained in the summer time like things like summer camp and things like that.
We think these are naturally inefficient.
They use large amounts of space that could be used for other things, they are necessarily like expensive and we think that's a like a drain on family finances, when you could have this publicly funded school system that instead gives your kids the structure that they need during the summer and gives them things to do and keeps them entertained.
Lastly under this though, is that it's like literally a waste of space to not be utilizing the school during the summer.
That is sort of like this hollow house that serves no purpose and occupies large amounts of land.
Especially in cities where space is like a scarce thing, it is important to ensure that spaces are constantly being used in order to ensure that you are not wasting space that could be used on something else.
Because it's a zero sum, people have to be in a location at any given time, and when they are not in school they are somewhere else using some other space that could be used for a different thing.
So it's always good when we keep the space actively engaged.
Proud to propose.