I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion, that we should ban casinos.
I think the model here is pretty intuitive, we just ban places where people gamble money, you know, we can do a staff task for this sort of thing, to figure out what exactly constitutes gambling, we would also be comfortable banning things like online gambling, and like non site gambling as well, we think this is well within the spirit of the motion.
So, two independent points under this, first that gambling addiction is a serious problem, and by banning the venues at which gambling can occur, we can meaningfully mitigate the scope of this issue, and secondly, the economic problems that are created by casinos, particularly within the local areas that they are built.
So first, on addiction: we would say that the existence of casinos, or any location where gambling can occur in a regulated fashion, facilitates gambling addictions.
This is I think pretty intuitive why gambling addictions are bad, generally being addicted to anything is bad, insofar as it definitionally forces the victim to engage in irrational and unhealthy behavior.
But gambling addiction particularly is something, that causes larger financial dreams on the individual, has a large externalities on their families or loved ones.
We think this is something that causes a lot of suffering to people, and necessarily it would be good to mitigate the extent of that.
So, casinos facilitate this, in the sense that you have to actually go somewhere to gamble, that you have to gamble with something, but casinos particularly are more pernicious than just, like, individual like day to day interactions, or small gambles, because the serial nature of a casino, that is that you could blow like thousands of dollars in a very short amount of time, makes it very easy for the worst cases of gambling addiction to blossom into something, that is the worst possible iteration of a gambling addiction.
So, we would say then, that basically as a spike to arguments about what, like, black markets are worse, that this is a special instance, in which black markets are unlikely going to be worse than the status quo, a, because the status quo is already pretty awful, but secondly, because the black market for gambling is so tiny, because it's very very difficult to organize like a large operation, where people have to engage in this illegal activity for hours at a time.
So, realistically the comparative is just so much smaller in scope, that that the lack of regulation probably isn't going to make up, for just how much smaller the industry would be in an illegal market.
The second independent point we have is how casinos are economically harmful, particularly for their communities.
We would say this plays out in four ways, first is that the tourism, that people often cite as a benefit of casinos, is zero sum.
It detracts from the other tourist attractions people will be spending their time out of the neighboring areas, and because casinos are generally these all inclusive things, were you like never have to leave the facility, there's very little were recirculation of money into the local area.
So, if someone were to go to see like, I don't know, the woods, or something, and you're like upstate new york area, where you're considering buying a casino, they might, you know, favor local restaurants or things like that.
They won't do that if it's a casino though.
Secondly, the proceeds from casinos generally go outside of the area where they're built, to wealthy investors, stake holders, that sort of thing.
Third, gambling is just an economically inefficient thing, that like the actual model of how a casino works is that you spend a lot more money than you get back.
So, that money is drained from the economy, exacerbates income inequality, by moving that money out of the poor areas, that generally are forced to consider building casinos in the first place, and puts it into the pocket of generally people in urban areas, that don't have these things.
Fourth is that externalities like traffic, that are generated by the casino, make the region less attractive to non gamblers, and then detract from the other forms of tourism they would generally get, because people don't want to have to deal with the issues created by the presence of the casino.
So, while on paper it looks like: oh, this casino is going to like bring a lot of people into the area, most reasonably, they're a, not going to benefit the local economy very well, b, mostly going to benefit people that already have lots of money, and c, are going to actively harm the other things, that are keeping your economy on track in the first place.
For all these reasons, proud to propose.