I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish primary elections.
Three independent points, the first of which is based on what I think is a fundamental misunderstanding by side government.
So what we hear out of side government is largely that partisan primaries are bad, that when you have like the democratic primary for the presidential election and you have members of the democratic party deciding we are going to put you know hillary clinton up there instead of say like bernie sanders or martin o'malley, that that's something they object to.
I think the problem here is that the motion isn't that, the motion is all primaries flat.
So this brings me to the first point which is that primaries are necessary to have a manageable field of candidates in your general election.
There's something called the choice paradox that eventhough like in theory you would think like oh giving people the largest number of choices possible is a good thing because it ensures that they can choose what is best talored to them.
It's a problem because if you're trying to choose what your favorite thing is of a list of like a hundred things, it is very difficult to do.
You have to make head to head comparisons of all these different possible iterations of any two people out of the field and as such it's incredibly unlikely that you're actually going to wind up choosing the person that best represents your interests and your preferences.
With a general election that has been whittled down to just a two candidates or even just a handful at least this is much more manageable.
We think then that in a world without primaries you are much more likely to have a general election landscape that is not only complicated where people often win by pluralities in where it's difficult for people to build meaningful political coalitions but also a world where people are unlikely to participate in elections or even you know vote properly because the situation is just so dense and so impossible to work with.
Our second independent point is that having these primaries the elite influence that intrinsic to them is actually a good thing.
Government is particularly upset by the notion that like in a lot of primaries there's like endorsements from other people in the party and stuff like that that determine the trajectory of the primary.
This is important though for two reasons.
First is that we think the alternative form of elite influence over this is something more sinister in nature, that absent a primary we think they're just more active campaigns to disavow specific individuals or more you know back door type things where like you're making financial contributions towards an individual candidate.
We think that allowing elites to exert disproportionate influence in a democratic way is always preferable.
But secondly and a lot more importantly, is that we think that that knowledge that a lot of these elites have is often pretty valuable and important information.
The elites are often phrases like this class of like rich bankers or whatever that like call all the shots behind closed doors, I don't think this is an accurate representation though.
I think generally when you're talking about like internal party endorsements it's one senator saying actually you probably shouldn't vote for that senator they, don't have a great work ethic and that's not something that the average person on the street would necessarily know.
These endorsements go a long way in ensuring that things that the public wouldn't necessarily know about the individual get out there and are aired in a way that is actually manageable and feasible.
We think allowing elites to process very disproportionately in this process insurers that someone can't just put on a pretty public face and slide through the cracks because of it.
Our third and final independent point is that primaries constitute a test of the candidates' appeal and a such allow electorates to make riskier decisions.
We think that what happens in a world without primaries is that you have to guess who's a viable candidate based on just sort of like a set of their characteristics rather than any sort of like information about how they prefer formed in various primaries.
This is important because if you can't have those tests, if you can't say well actually bernie sanders is a viable candidate he did pretty well in like the iowa and new hampshire primaries then nobody's going to vote for him.
We think that in any political sense candidates that deviate from sort of like the establishment center are unlikely to do well in a system where they can't be tested by primary electorates instead when all the voting happens at once in the general election you just wind up with a electoral landscape that is unlikely to favor individuals who haven't been tested yet.
Proud to oppose.