I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish marriage.
Three independent points.
First is that the government shouldn't be in the business of defining what marriage is.
Under our model we would say that marriage is something that can happen between individuals on a private basis but we wouldn't say that the government you know should actually in put their stamp of approval on this, that they should actually you know issue marriage licenses and define what constitutes marriage.
And the reason why we're specifically uncomfortable with government defining what constitutes marriage is that it means that social that rights for you know groups that often don't have access to marriage that people like gay people for example or polyamorous relationships.
These are people who don't have access to the right to marriage until social tolerance catches up with a you know what they want to do essentially.
So this means you have a lot of rights infringements over the broad history of most countries.
We think that it shouldn't be contingent upon you know what the social attitudes at the time are, but rather that this is a private decision that people can make themselves without the government stamp of approval and as a result society at large shouldn't have to engage in the litmus test for whether or not you have that right.
But furthermore we think the government shouldn't be involved in such a private affair, that this is something that happens between two individuals and it's really not anybody else's business.
Someone else's marriage doesn't affect me as an individual so my elected officials shouldn't have a right then to have any sort of say in what constitutes a marriage between those two individuals.
Our second independent point is the formalization makes leaving tougher.
That is that marriage is a social construct at the end of the day, this is just sort of like the notion largely propagated by religious institutions that two people are joining together in matrimony indefinitely.
The problem is that people don't generally do that people, leave quite often divorce rates are actually quite high.
And this is a problem because when marriages formalize through a government institution there are lots of legal barriers to exiting that marriage.
This is an issue because it means that you know people that want a divorce for perfectly reasonable reasons that don't quite fall within the government's definition of what constitutes grounds for divorce can have a lot of difficulty with it.
Furthermore those legal barriers and the legalistic ways in which we approach marriage create lots of hazy lines around ownership of property and things like that.
We think rather than you know having all these like silly loopholes and regulations around marriage we should just allow individuals to craft their own agreements, make their own individual decisions, and not have the government you know make these decisions for them in ways that are often harmful in the long term.
Our third independent point is that marriage as an institution is just a bad thing and we really shouldn't be encouraging it.
So first off I do want to establish that when the government gives their stamp of approval that normalizes the notion that marriage is something that like you know is a good basically a social good that you are saying you know we issue these licenses, we decide what marriage is therefore it's probably a good thing.
The problem is that it's probably not.
Marriage when it's so widespread maximizes the notion that you people should be cohabitant, that it is you know the normal thing to do to get married.
But we don't think this is necessarily true, both because we think that there are lots of different interpretations of marriage, different ways you could go about it that are equally legitimate but secondly because we don't think that people should even have to be married in the first place, that it's bad when that's a social norm and the people are shamed for not getting married.
Given that we think the government involvement in this you know private decision and in this like larger social construct just is harmful in that it perpetuates the notion that there is a rigid definition of marriage, that there is a rigid construct of what constitutes it and what people ought do with their lives.
Proud to propose.