I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the jobs act.
Because the jobs act was never passed, we're going to interpret this as we should have passed the jobs act.
Our first independent point pertains to infrastructure, much like government's did.
I think there's a fundamental misunderstanding on government's part where they say that it would be better to fund infrastructure than it would be to, you know, put money into these jobs training programs.
The problem is that the american jobs act did both.
It both funded you know job training programs and things like that, and things that were explicitly designed to ensure that you know that people actually have access to the skill set necessary to land a job, but it also was predicated on the notion that essentially people that we should you know create a lot of these jobs by funding infrastructure, there were specific provisions to spend money on infrastructure in the american jobs act.
We think that all the reasons the government articulates as to why infrastructure is so beneficial for the economy, has so many externalities and so many benefits, are all true.
The fundamental misunderstanding here of course is that the american jobs act did fund infrastructure, so we think that this is something that the united states government should have spent a lot of money on.
Our second independent point regards increased borrowing.
So we think it's interesting when gov articulates that at the time in twenty twelve when this act was being considered, federal federal borrowing rates were essentially at an all time low, that this was an opportune time to borrow money and to add money to the deficit.
Broadly, it's important to recognize that the deficit is kind of a a misleading construct, and that for all the hand wringing over the national debt, this isn't something that merits much concern, because as long as we can reliably pay back the interest on the loans that we take out, we're honestly in pretty good financial standing.
And because the specific things that we spend the money that we borrow on are things that generate more money back to us in the long term through greater economic development, it is a sound investment.
The amount that we make by the externalities generated by things like infrastructure projects, greatly outweighs the up-front costs associated with the borrowing.
So when we can borrow at a reasonable rate, it's opportune to do so.
I think the problem, then, that gov never seems to really grapple with, is that when you can put a specific face on the things that your borrowing would actually go towards and encourage, that makes it easier to borrow from a political standpoint.
That conservatives have less ease essentially pushing this narrative about debt being bad, when people can say okay, but we're going into a little bit more debt in exchange for this really good thing.
Given that then, it is exceptionally reasonable to pass legislation like this that puts a face on federal spending in a way that is politically palatable, that is through infrastructure spending and jobs training programs in the midst of a recession, in order to ensure that our borrowing levels are something more approximating what is reasonable at that specific point in time.
Our third and final point is essentially smoothing.
Why it's particularly important at it was particularly important at this point in time to push for job retraining.
We think that because there was a rash of underemployment in the economy that you know people were essentially not capable of finding gainful employment, there was a necessity to create programs in the short term that would ensure that, you know, people could get back on their feet and actually get paid.
When there's lack of employment in the economy, it's often put into a downward spiral, because there's not people purchasing products so than businesses fail, and as a result it's difficult to get the economy back on its feet.
Infrastructure spending will however, and the jobs retraining programs, would have allowed people to get back on their feet, find employment in the meantime, spend money, because now they have money to spend, and as such the economy could have rebounded more quickly.
Proud to oppose.