I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish home births.
Three independent points: first is that this is, theoretically, could be a good idea sometimes.
So we think this is true for three reasons: first is that we think that home birth can save costs for the individual.
That is to say that almost intuitively, it is cheaper to give birth in the you know in your own home then in a hospital, where you have to pay like large medical bills for labor costs for all the people in the hospital and you have to pay for like usage of the room and the facilities and the equipment.
Even if you do homebirth in like the very safe way, which is to hire midwives to perform the home birth at the safety of your own home we still think that this is something that is just like more like that it's just cheaper.
That it is more affordable for the average individual, and as a general rule of thumb affordable things should always be an option because we recognize that there's like income inequality in society and that having affordable options for poor people is just a good thing.
Secondly, we think that this is a more natural form of birth.
I think there are any number of reasons why a person might just like prefer to give birth in the comfort of their own home.
That just like you know being in your home can create a sense of psychological comfort, that being in your home can create a sense of physical comfort, if you are someone that like, I don't know, has an allergy to the material in hospital I don't know, there's legitimate reasons why you would want this.
And I think that if you're just willing to hire the midwives and have these people in your home, with you know any equipment that they're probably going to need then that's like legitimate.
That's like a the reasonable safe thing to do and I don't think that there are specific intrinsic risk that you're absorbing there.
But thirdly I think this is true because there's no objective conception of good.
Like it is just necessarily illegitimate for the government to say like this is right and this is wrong.
I'll get into the third party harms in a moment.
But I think that from the perspective of the person giving birth it is just better to say: " look you know what's best. "
Like even we think that you can make medical decisions insofar as like you know this is something you do on a regular basis, I will also get to that in a moment, but we just think that people have the ability to define for themselves what is best for them.
This leads me into my second independent point, that it is always best to give people autonomy over their own decisions.
We think that the information asymmetries argument that is made by government is illegitimate on the basis that people have to make medical decisions all the time.
Like people to decide whether they want to get like an experimental treatment for cancer.
Like people have to make these decisions.
And you give them as much information as you can, because at the end of the day we recognize that the person has to make that choice.
Even if they're not a doctor, they still have to make the decision.
So we think at the point where we give people this autonomy and this like sort of latitude on a regular basis, it doesn't make sense to arbitrarily nicks it in this one particular instance.
But with regards to the child, we think that this is a reasonable choice for the parent to make.
Because they are the best proxy for the child's interest.
The reasons I articulated as to why a home birth is theoretically preferable for some individuals also extend to the child.
That if complications arise in birth, because of some issue that say a parent, like the person giving birth has with, I don't know, like that allergic reaction to a material in the hospital setting, we think that is something of course that can be transferred onto the child.
So if the parent decides: " look, this is just the thing that's better for my child ", the child's not sitting there are capable of advocating for themselves.
We recognize that the parent is the person that is most capable of understanding what is best for the child on the basis that they will be raising that child and that they know the environment the child will grow up in, that they will probably be shaping most of the child's preferences like through that sort of like world development, and as such we're willing to let them be advocate for that kid.
Proud to oppose.