I am proud to support the motion that we should ban home births.
Three independent points, but first a quick overview on the standards for when we can ban something.
I think broadly there are two big reasons that we're going to be explaining in this speech.
The first is that when there's an information asymmetry, that is the person can't meaningfully consent into the particular action because they're not capable of or they don't have access rather to the information about what the consequences of that action will be, we need to ban that action.
Because the consent isn't meaningful.
But secondly we think that bans are justified when there's significant third party harms, that is even if people themselves are allowed to consent into harm, we don't think that I can consent other people into harms.
That's why I say can't sign a contract on behalf of somebody else.
For that reason then we think that both of these standards are met by home births and as such the ban is justified.
Our first independent point is that the information asymmetry exists.
So, we think that a home birth is something birth in general is something that's pretty complicated, that requires an extensive amount of medical knowledge.
We don't think that the average person is aware of that.
Especially because home births are often done by people that aren't very trustworthy in the medical industry in the first place.
For example you know generally this is something that's done because people think like: " oh, I don't need like a fancy doctor doing my birth, like, I've got this, it's natural, it's whatever ".
But a lot of people die during home births like this is a very dangerous thing.
It even if less people are dying than there used to be, it's still comparatively much more dangerous than than giving birth in a hospital setting.
At that point, we don't think it is even remotely reasonable to you know actually allow people to consent into this if the actual demographic of who's doing it are people that are actively shunning the medical advice that they need to survive.
Our second independent point is that third party harms are inflicted upon the child.
So the kid being born obviously isn't consenting into this because they can't be consulted about the decision.
We think though that this home birth is almost or is certainly going to be higher risk that being born in a hospital.
That birth defects, you know complications in the birthing process, are significantly more likely to occur without the proper vision of both a medical doctor and the sort of medical equipment that you would find in a hospital.
Because those harms are going to be internalized by the child, that is say if they're like you know born with a breathing complication or something because of an issue with the birthing process, they're the ones that have to suffer for decision that somebody else made.
We think principally this is massively unjust and as such the practice should be banned.
Our third independent point is that there is a state interest in preventing this type of harm because a lot of third party harm can be inflicted upon others like say taxpayers.
So we think that specifically where this like this sort of drag on the state apparatus comes from is healthcare costs relating to complications to the birthing process.
These can be sustained either by the mother or the child.
Either way we think there is, as articulated earlier, and exponentially higher chance of a complication resulting in an extreme medical case that is likely to arise with a home birth as compared to a hospital birth.
This then creates a drag on taxpayers because healthcare costs associated with it especially if this person has like a state or government provided healthcare plan, are likely to go up.
As a result of that then innocent taxpayers, people not involved with the decision that are not consenting into the decision, have to essentially subsidize your decision to not trust a medical doctor.
At that point we think that there is a significant interest on the part of the state in ensuring that this drag isn't created in the first place and by extension banning the practice.
Proud to propose.