I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should abolish open primaries.
I want to start this with an overview about what matters in this round because I think especially towards the end of gov's speech, there's a lot of really low impact arguments, like ease of procedural issues and conventions.
What matters is ensuring that individual people within a democracy are capable of putting forward their vote for the person they believe best represents their interests.
This, I think, fundamentally, is the point of democracies, that we want a system of government that represents the interests of each individual person and that each individual person is best capable, then, of putting forward their vote in such a way that ensures that they are being represented by someone with their best interests in mind.
Given that, three independent points.
First is that this system is the best system for ensuring that people have the best choice the best choice in terms of who they can choose.
It is an undue burden to tell people that, essentially, you have to know which party you're going to vote for, you know, very far in advance.
You usually have to register, like at least like a month, if not significantly longer before the primary to be able to vote in it in a closed primary, and this itself is a problem.
This means that people, particularly centrists, are disproportionately harmed by this, that have to predict, long in advance, which party they think is going to be most representative.
Especially when there are candidates who enter late in the race, we think that this is an unreasonable expectation.
And especially because things change over the course of the race and people will, you know, make their case to the voters and, you know, there'll be scandals and occurrences that occur over the course of the race, that this is an unreasonable expectation, and rather we should keep primaries open so that individuals have access to as many choices as possible and can advance the one can work to advance the one person that they think is best acting within their own interests.
Our second independent point is that this mitigates the extent to which individuals identify with a particular party.
We think that largely strong, rigid party identification is bad for this country.
It creates a sense of my team versus your team and not only soaks divisions within this country, but it also means that there's less deal making across files because the other party is seen as essentially political poison.
This mitigates then the extent to which compromise occurs in our government, but also mitigates the extent to which people can talk across political lines and resolve differences on an interpersonal level.
We think that closed primaries directly facilitate this form of tribalism because it necessitates a system wherein individuals make an active decision about which party they define themselves as.
This is a problem because, politically speaking, the center in this country is quite large.
The vast majority of people do not exist on the far polls of left or right, but rather there is a silent majority in the middle that makes up the bulk of this country.
And we think that it is unreasonable, then, to force those individuals to make an active decision as to which side of the aisle that they are going to choose, especially because when they have different, you know, polarities on different issues, they are often not firmly in one camp or the other.
Our third and final point is that this system provides for better and more representative general actions.
One thing that we find interesting that government doesn't really touch upon is the fact that open runoffs are actually the system that exists at non-presidential elections in many states, louisiana and california are two examples of this.
This is largely a product of the fact that in these states, there is either they are either largely red or largely blue.
And as such, it makes more sense to have an open runoff, where your party doesn't define who you can vote for in the in the, you know, the primary election, and the top two vote-getters advance to the general election.
This, in turn, ensures the people have essentially access to the choices that are most likely to be representative of the wide majority of people.
That, in turn, leads to a better general election where people can more clearly hash out the differences between two popular candidates and then choose the one that is best fitting for a wide majority of people.
Proud to oppose.