I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should prohibit slum tourism.
So, for the model, it's probably not super intuitive to point out exactly what constitutes slum tourism.
I think we're fine with using a bit of a sniff test on a city-by-city level, but generally we would say the characteristics of slum tourism are things like, say, tours that specifically focus on poverty, that go into areas that are significantly below a city's median income, that focus on things that are not of, you know, historical or cultural value but rather just sort of explaining how poor a specific region is.
And again, like we'd be fine with just like individual cities making that decision on whether or not something constitutes slum tourism.
So, three independent points under this then.
First is that centrism creates a financial incentive for cities to hold down their poorest members.
Second, it perpetuates the view of non-western countries as destitute.
And thirdly, that it diverts monies away from neighborhoods that historically have suffered and into the hands of tourism agencies that are generally located outside of the country or, at best, in the already richer parts of the country.
On the first argument, that it creates a financial incentive to perpetuate poverty in these neighborhoods, I think it's important to recognize that a lot of the time these cities will rely on tourism to be a significant way of bringing in money.
Most cities in the developing world are based on sort of two industries.
One is exporting labor to neighboring towns that have large amounts of industrial capacity, and two is facilitating a lot of the sort of white collar work that is involved in the trading of those goods.
Generally, those are the two largest employers.
So that leaves very little room for there to be, like, a meaningful economic basis for what is typically referred to as the slums.
In that capacity then, city planners are posed with an incentive to perpetuate the poverty within these areas in order to maintain its tourism viability.
Tourism is an important industry for these cities, and it's sort of a lot of the lifeblood of like the tax basis.
But the problem is that that money doesn't go into the pockets of the poor people in the slum if your basis for continuing that tax revenue is keeping down these poor people and perpetuating the image of a slum.
The money is generally recirculated back into things that disproportionately benefit the wealthy, like business reinvestment plans and like cool skyscrapers and luxury condos and things like that.
So we think then that it widens inequality within regions that are already notorious for massive inequality.
Second, that it perpetuates the view where the third world is destitute.
Recognize that the average westerner sort of gets their perception of the non-western world through one of two ways.
One is sort of social media.
That's not unique on either side of the house, the way the news covers these types of things probably isn't going to change policy.
But the other is tourism, when you physically go to a place and you see what's going on there and that shapes your perception of the region.
The problem is that when you have things like slum tourism that specifically focus on the most destitute areas within the region, op is going to say like, " oh, it's good that they're seeing this suffering and that they understand it exists. "
Again, news media will probably cover that suffering.
The problem is that when you have slum tourism, people think this is the defining feature of the country, that like when people go to mumbai and they just engage in slum tourism, and they don't see the bustling metropolis that is other parts of the city, it creates the perception that india or other countries are just these inherently destitute places that are doomed to fail.
My third independent argument is that it directs money away from the neighborhood and into tourism agencies.
I think this is fairly intuitive, like the tourism agency, pretty much every step of the way, collects every dollar that goes into slum tourism, so it's not like the neighborhoods are benefiting from this and again, this just widens inequality in an area already notorious for it.
Proud to propose.