I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish the affordable care act.
Our first independent point is that the ACA has increased coverage for americans, particularly poorer americans, and that this in turn is an important right.
So, first we believe that healthcare access is a right insofar as it is facilitative to the more fundamental right of good health.
Your health is not only tied to your obviously right to life, but also to your ability to exercise other things, like gainful employment and a happy life insofar as you know being unhealthy, being sick for reasons that are financial in nature, can significantly reduce your quality of life.
At that point then, we think it is important for the government to ensure that as many people as possible have access to some form of health care in order to ensure that they are not financially barred from exercising those basic rights.
The ACA statistically has increased the number of people with health care coverage.
It has ensured that more people have access to this basic right and as such it has ensured that our society is better as a result.
We think there are obvious imperfections but it's important to note that the counter factual being dealt with by side government is simply a world with no ACA.
We think of that comparative, a world that was, that we were living in prior to the existence of the ACA is inherently worse by virtue of that decreased coverage.
Our second independent point is that the ACA ensured specific protections for people with preexisting conditions that might not that would not exist otherwise.
So this legislation ensured that people with a preexisting condition, like say birth defect or a previous bout with cancer, would not affect their ability to get coverage.
It's important that we keep these protections in place for two reasons: the first is that people with preexisting conditions are more prone to future illnesses, but as such they are the people that are most in need of healthcare.
These are the people who are most vulnerable in our society.
That are most likely to live in a extreme state of suffering, without the financial assistance and the you know legal assistance of this legislation.
At that point we think that it's abolition will be incredibly harmful.
But secondly it's important to recognize that there is a principle justification here too.
That the fact that you were say born with a birth defect shouldn't barf you bar you from being able to access healthcare.
Rather, we think that you should have these protections in place to ensure that this is an equitable market, that it does not discriminate against individuals with those preexisting conditions.
Our third and final independent point stems from the political perspective of this.
We think that a lot of the ground swell of support for abolition of obama care comes from the right.
Sort of this like bogeyman driven interpretation of obama care that is more rooted in sort of general opposition to obama than it is in the fine points of healthcare policy.
This is problematic because we think there is like this bizarre illusion that government is under, that if you abolish obama care something better will come along to replace it.
I think recent healthcare battles in the like in the house of representatives and in the senate have demonstrated that that's not the case.
That instead that the republican base is simply seeking some sort of like wholesale abolition of obama care, just on the basis that it would be an affront to obama and democrats at large.
We don't think that there is actually a lot of thinking going on about what sort of healthcare policy would replace it.
Therefore, we think that if you were to simply get rid of obama care rather reform it, you wouldn't wind up with the political momentum necessary to implement new health care laws and as such you wind up with the problematic marketplace that existed pre two thousand eight.
As such, it's important to ensure that we don't just wholesale abolish obama care but rather engage in reform of that line by line bits of it in order to ensure that we actually have some sort of health care network, some sort of healthcare legislation that's regulating this market and keeping the protections that I numerated earlier.
Proud to oppose.