I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should seek to achieve universal healthcare.
While I think this is more debate about the goal rather than the specific policy you know I think broadly speaking we would just endorse any policy that seeks to achieve universal healthcare.
Obviously some policies are better than others but probably shouldn't be a debate about like whether or not single-payer is like the mechanism to achieve it rather just the goal of enacting universal health care and ensuring that everyone has coverage through like insurance.
So the first thing I'd like to establish is that healthcare is a right and this is the sort of the first independent argument is that healthcare is a right and specifically health care that is like insurance to ensure that you can actually get you know the sort of the sort of health care that you need.
So insurance is pretty critical to ensuring really thorough health care while it might not be necessary for your like six month physician visits or whenever, it's really important for ensuring that when you have something that is like truly disastrous if you have something that is truly disastrous that you are capable of paying for it.
For a lot of people you know this is this is a make or break situation people can go absolutely bankrupt on expensive procedures that they really didn't have any way to produce or or to prevent rather.
This when you're talking about you know something like like an aneurysm, this is an expensive procedure to try and mitigate the harms of it but it's not really something that you can do much to prevent and I think that's important.
Health is something that is intrinsically important to the individual's right structure.
When we talk about your right to life obviously your right to you know health and you know not you know dying on the operating table by lack of insurance is is is facilitative to ensuring your right to life.
So this is something that's really fundamentally important to ensure that every person has access to, that at the point where healthcare to actually have the capacity to pay for these operations is facilitative to your right to life, this is something that we should take active steps to ensure that everybody has access to.
And I don't think that you know ability to pay should really determine whether or not you get to live.
Our second independent point is that even for the people who can afford insurance either way, this just makes for a better society.
So one way in which this happens is through spread of illness.
That is in a society where you have a lot of people that can't afford basic coverage that just get sick more frequently because of their lack of ability to you know see a physician or get proper medicine, that that creates problems for the the people with insurance because it makes them more likely to get sick when lots of other people are also sick.
But beyond that it makes for better work force.
From an economic perspective it's better when your country is just healthier when they're you know less people taking sick days when they're less taking prolonged leaves for medical reasons having a society that is able to you know continue its work force with more regularity because you don't have these interruptions due to health care issues is really beneficial at a macro level for everybody.
So even if you take this from like this really really self centered perspective of just well you know what I'm out for number one I think there are still really tangible benefits to ensuring that other people have proper access to healthcare.
And the last thing I want to discuss here and the third independent point is that it mitigates inequity.
A large driver of cyclical poverty and why people who are born into poverty have trouble escaping it is health care.
That is that it is difficult to escape poverty when you are you know paying lots of money for health care procedures that other people normally wouldn't have to deal with.
I think when you have universal coverage and when you have the insurance essentially to make sure that people you know don't have to worry about whether or not you know their healthcare is going to bankrupt them, their healthcare costs are going to bankrupt them, I think you have a society that makes it a lot more possible for people to have upward social mobility and be able to escape cycles of poverty.
Proud to propose.