I'm proud to support the motion that we should ban cheerleading.
Three independent points, first is that this is a particularly dangerous sport.
So we think that especially when we're talking about something that is predominantly practiced by adolescence it's important to take into account whether or not an individual is capable of consenting into something that is so dangerous.
Recognize that children, because they are so young, don't have access to the information necessary to make an informed decision on whether or not they consent into danger.
Cheerleading itself is notably dangerous.
There is a high risk of head injuries especially from like going really high up on a pyramid and things like that.
There is also just like a lot of moving around and obviously as anyone who has seen cheerleading before can attest to, there isn't much in the way of protective gear.
It's not like you're using shoulder pads or helmets or anything like that despite the fact that you are putting yourself pretty notably in harm's way.
We think then that insofar as children are incapable of weighing those risks against whatever the perceived benefits of cheerleading are, the state should defer to the side of abolition insofar as children are incapable of meaningfully making that decision for themselves.
Our second independent point is the social effects that this has on high schools.
So we think that in a lot of high schools, cheerleading is seen as this thing that defines essentially who is like popular or who is just like worth talking to things like that.
While we think that the basis for the social structures is really ingrained in the nature of high school, we do think that cheerleading is a specifically important outlet for that problematic social structure to be reaffirmed.
This social structure is problematic insofar as it a, essentially tells individual children who don't like a specific activity that you are just innately worth less, b, it tells those children that they are not allowed to access social circles and other things that are really important to developing in early adolescence, and thirdly, it simply encourages more people to engage in the activity because of social pressures when it might not be a smart decision for them to do so.
See earlier argumentation about why this is physically dangerous.
Given all of this then, we think that even if cheerleading is just sort of a tool in the toolbox for this problematic social dynamic, we still think it is a better world when we get rid of that tool, when we get rid of that clear cut outlet for these social structures.
Our third and final independent point is regarding sexism and specifically the ways in which cheerleading reetrenches with regards to sexism we think that cheerleading is seen as obviously predominantly female sport.
This is something that you like look around high schools and this is something that women predominantly do and the reason why that is is that women are often crowded out of other athletic activities so football where a lot of cheerleading happens doesn't have a lot of women that are permitted to play and a lot of districts explicitly ban women from participating in the sport.
We think that cheerleading then perpetuates sexism in two ways or three ways.
First it establishes women as subordinate to male athletes that is that you were just supposed to stand on the sidelines, cheer for the men, and like stay out of the way.
We think that is a problematic attitude and we think that especially putting this in high schools and exposing children to it is extremely likely to reentrench these notions and society at large.
Secondly, we think is problematic because cheerleading provides an opportunity essentially for athletics coordinators at high schools to pooh pooh away complaints about how women aren't allowed to participate in sports.
They could say oh well yeah you're not allowed to play a little like whatever say like the football team but you can do cheerleading so it's not discriminatory.
We think then that getting rid of outlets that are explicitly designed to allow these faculty to have excuses not to allow women to participate in sports will then mitigate the potency of that excuse.
And thirdly we think that much in the same way that beauty pageants and things like that are used cheerleading is used as a way to perpetuate very specific beauty standards.
So the skimpy skirts are like halter tops that sort of thing are used in cheerleading and to perpetuate this notion of a objective singular type of female beauty and specifically to overly sexualize adolescents.
We think that then is problematic and we think that then justifies a ban.
Proud to propose.