I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should adopt multiculturalism.
Our first independent point is the proactive right to preserve one's own culture.
So we think that largely, the model discussed by side government insists that countries become tolerant essentially of a landscape in which the original culture of that country is distilled, or is drowned out essentially by a plethora of other cultures.
This in essence is a problem.
I think that largely, the countries that you look at that expressly endorse multiculturalism, such as the united states, do it as a product of the fact that they didn't have like an original culture, that they were in fact largely groups of immigrants that came to this particular location.
I think a more relevant example is something like, say, france, which is currently undergoing you know a lot of changes in due to its influx in immigration, and is specifically facing challenges to its uniquely french identity.
This is something that's important to people that have lived in the country for a long time.
And we think that specifically, even small changes on things like personal property, have profound impacts on the identity of a country.
The ability of the ability of one to just you know like walk down a street in paris, and see you know traditionally french foods and that sort of thing, is something that is systemically important to a lot of people.
And we think that largely speaking, there are two main obligations of the government.
One is to ensure you know basically the will of its people, and we think that this is something that people want, that largely this is something that is desired by a large portion of the population, and as such a democratic government has a proactive obligation to preserve that culture, but secondly we think it's important and specifically an obligation, insofar as this is something that's an actual right of the individuals, that right to one's own culture and to exist within the culture that one has you know grown up in and has been established with him, so we think then it is harmful to erode that consistency.
Our second independent point is sort of the ways in which that multiculturalism can actually harm immigrants.
So, we think that broadly speaking, there's two ways that this can be analyzed from.
The first is just outright violence.
We think that while these instances are comparatively rare, this is still something that obviously harms a lot of people.
That largely when large influxes of immigrants come to a particular country, they will often experience outright acts of aggression and violence by people who feel that the original country, you know, wants to maintain its culture.
This is of course problematic, we think that it's bad when people are you know maimed or even killed in the name of a culture, and at that point then we think that assimilation is a preferable route insofar as you know it minimizes the suffering that's intrinsic to those cultural clashes.
But the second way you can analyze this, I think, is the more pernicious one that's much more widespread, is this that it's sort of social inequity that's generated by a lack of assimilation.
Often immigrants are treated as second class citizens, and even people that have been in a country for a long time but haven't assimilated into the dominant culture are still treated quite poorly.
This is at a number of things from you know housing and employment discrimination, all the way out to just you know active redlining and policies like that.
We think that these are problematic, not just because of the impasse that they generate in the short term in terms of the suffering that's intrinsic to poverty, but also in terms of the long term, that it establishes cyclical poverty for immigrant populations, and ensures that they are often incapable of achieving you know sort of higher status, of achieving you know essentially equity.
This in itself then is problematic, and we think that oftentimes assimilation can mitigate the impacts of this by mitigating the desire of dominant of the original, you know, culture essentially in that country to engage in these oppressive acts.
Proud to oppose.