I'm proud to support the motion that we should abolish foster care.
Three independent points, first is that foster care is an inherently unstable environment in which child would grow up.
So we think that obviously the preferable outlet for a child to grow up in and that environment that we would most like to see is one where they are simply raised by their biological parents in a happy, healthy, stable environment.
Obviously that's not always going to happen.
Things like say deaths in the family or things like abandonment occur, significant abuse there are a number of ways in which a child can be separated from the family that they were born into.
We think though that when you take that child and you say okay we're going to put you in foster care now there is a degree of instability that then follows that because foster care is a, largely populated by parents who overestimate their ability to take on so called problem kids, people that usually have deep seated psychological issues or abandonment issues and are thus very very difficult to raise.
And secondly we think that it's populated by a lot of people that are looking to abuse the system, morons that later but just like in general people that are often going to be not engaging in proper care for the child and if they are caught in the optimistic scenario that means there's disruption the kids life.
We think then that instability, that moving from household to household as different foster families fail for one reason or another, interrupts the child's ability to grow up properly and as such we don't support the system.
Our second independent point out is outright abuse.
We think that often in foster homes there are lots of families who will take foster children either one for the paychecks that are associated with those kids, or two for other like any number of other reasons.
We think though that this can be abusive in one of two ways.
One, we think that there can just be neglect.
That is that if you were just looking to like cash your paycheck that is associated with the kids and do nothing to actually help those individuals neglect itself is significantly problematic because the counter factual even if it's some like abysmal dystopian like orphanage run by the state is still going to be comparatively better than a family that provides absolutely nothing for the child.
We think that because this is something that can happen quite often then we would prefer a situation in which there is a stronger degree of oversight.
But beyond just neglect we think that foster families can often have outright abuse that if an individual is abusing the child either physically, emotionally, psychologically there are very little outlets by which foster children can actually speak up about said abuse.
The nature of the foster care system allows abusive parents to keep their children silent and often gives them almost the same degree of autonomy over those children as we would generally afford to biological parents.
That in turn means that we are unlikely to keep reasonable checks on those parents and abuse is more likely to run rampant.
Our third and final independent point though is false solvency.
We think that in the status quo there are lots of problems from a sort of administrative political end that don't get resolved because they were articulated in private settings, things like an abusive foster families home.
As a result, you see very little exposition of this from things like the media or from just general conversation and as a result of that there's very little political pressure to change the system.
We think that more transparent institutions like say government run orphanages are more likely to be responsive to political pressures and media pressures and as a result we prefer that more dynamic responsive system.
The status quo is not responsive, the status quo can be wrapped in secrecy easily and as such solvency, truly better lives for these children, are unlikely to materialize.
Proud to propose.