I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion, that marriage should be abolished.
Three independent points under this.
First, that it's a necessary institution for legal disputes, and other sort of legalistic aspects of interpersonal relationships, that are important to implement.
Second, that marriage is good, and the state has a specific interest in promoting marriage.
And third, the optics of repealing marriage, that are harmful, and lead to a lot of social backlash.
So, first on the regards of legal disputes, and other just sort of like legalistic reasons, why it's good to have this as something that is formally recognized.
I think government outlines a lot of the reasons why this is important, like splitting up property in a divorce, the need to visit a spouse in the hospital, things like that, right?
But the problem is that, I don't think you should buy the government alternative, that it's like: oh, we can have these like domestic partnerships, or things like that, because you need cohabitation as a standard, right?
Like at a certain point, we need to draw a line in the sand and be like: okay, well this is what's distinguishes between like a friendship and verses that like, elevated level of interpersonal relationship, that warrants these special rights, like joint tax filing, and things like that, right?
But the problem is that at the point where you're saying like, oh, just like domestic partnerships or something like that, this is virtually indistinguishable from a marriage.
Like I think it's important to recognize, that on side opposition we can defend the world, where in we expand the definition of marriage to be incredibly inclusive, I think it is within our grounds to just be any two individuals who consent into marriage, like into a marrying one another, have the right to do so, any number of people who want to do so have the right to do so, because that is something that we can change with the definition of marriage, as time goes on.
The problem is that, when you get rid of marriage, you get rid of that necessary component of interpersonal relationships, that is important to like handle all of these legal aspects of the interpersonal relationship, and they don't get that on their side of the house, because the best they can do is just like: oh, marriage by a different name, which is like obviously not within the spirit of the motion.
So, the second independent point I'd like to propose then is just sort of normative reasons why marriage is a good thing, and why the state should encourage it.
I think gov does the warranting here, explaining why abolishing marriage probably discourages it, and decreases the rate at which people get married, I see three reasons why it's important to proliferate this.
First, to share costs, like when you live under the same roof, when you share a lot of your food cost, things like that, that means that you decrease the individual economic burden on the individual, and you create a more efficient economy.
Second is stable child raising, so when you don't live together, when you're not in a stable relationship, any children that you produce are likely to also experience the harms of that instability.
We think that it's like fine to say that like: oh, people can consent into like instability at their own wise, but to the point where children are a third party, that is harmed by that decision, we think the state has a specific interest in maintaining the stability in the environment to which that child is raised.
And thirdly is that stability within the relationship has externalities onto the economy at large, like things like like less volatility in your purchasing patterns, and things like that, that can have profound impacts elsewhere.
Our third independent point is optics.
So, I think it's just intuitively true, that religious people would see this as an attack, right?
Like for all the people that were up in arms about like gay marriage being legalized, I think this is doubly true of the number of people that would be like: oh they are literally just abolishing marriage, right?
I think, even if you think this is a silly position for people to take, lots and lots of people will take it, and it's important to recognize, that the backlash is unlikely to be materialized in the form of anything against anybody, other than people that have historically been pushing for access to the institution of marriage, right?
Like, people are going to blame like like like gay individuals, for wanting to expand the definition of marriage, as the reason why this was ultimately abolished.
Think it's is doubly true, in so far as liberals are probably going to be the ones, that would push for the abolishing the institution of marriage as a whole, right?
So, just think that the backlash that stems from this, and like the massive societal push against gay rights, and against liberals in general, just significantly outweighs all of the things that gov tells you about like, oh, well like, marriages the shifting line in the sand, that has historically been problematic.
I think we create more problems on their side of the house, when we enrage these people that, like, really hold this institution dear.
Proud to oppose.