I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should further implement goal-line technology.
What we mean by this then is just you know implementing this in more games and using goal-line technology to determine whether or not a goal has been scored in a soccer game or not.
So two independent points.
First being accuracy.
This is something that's important in sports, is to make decisions correctly.
A lot of the reason we enjoy sports is tied to the fairness of the sport itself and the accuracy with which calls are made.
We care about competitiveness which is of course you know intrinsically tied into how fair the calls are and we also care you know about like sort of the spirit of the game and you know playing in a way that approximates some level of fairness.
That is that people are rewarded for you know feats of athleticism that are difficult to replicate.
So having a goal system then that is based on sort of eyeballing it is always going to be subject to a lot of issues.
You know often refs are observing things from a bit of a distance even if you are up close it's just like difficult to make decisions on things that happen to a hairline.
This is why a lot of other sports have already implemented some sort of a variation on goal-line technology.
You know track events for example use photo finishes quite frequently to determine extremely close races.
So we think then that there is a fairness claim obviously that you know people are just more likely to get correct decisions and goals when we implement this technology but also that there is a certain you know sense of the sport's integrity being preserved because the correct decisions are being made and people are being properly rewarded for their feats of athleticism.
Our second independent point is that there is less derision for refs in this world.
So we think right now that you know being a ref is pretty thankless job.
This is you're a person that you know if it's frequently frequently you know cast as a villain by fans and players alike.
People often blame you for things that just genuinely aren't your fault.
You know no matter what call you make someone's going to be angry at you because a lot of the time calls are zero sum and goals of course are you know one of the most obvious ways in which this is articulated, that if you say something is a goal the team that was scored upon is not going to be pleased and if you say something isn't a goal then the team that was trying to score the goal is not going to be pleased.
Either way you're faced with a lot of angry fans, a lot of angry players, and this can have pretty profound impacts on you.
It can you know affect your career if you're talking about people that are employing you.
It can also just affect your safety with angry fans often confronting referees after games.
So this is a pretty significant issue for you as an individual and or for referees as individuals, and as such we think that it's reasonable then to implement technologies that both satiate the demands of fans quite frankly by introducing some objectivity into it but also helps referees by insuring that they have some sort of like plausible backing for the decision that they've made.
It a lot harder to get mad at the ref and blame them for the decision individually when there is like a actual like tool or instrument backing up their decision and justifying it for them.
We think that that in turn means more respect for refs because people are less likely to villainize them, but we also think that that means you know obviously more safety associated with that for the refs, that they're less likely to experience the negative aspects of being villainized.
Proud to propose.