I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban tattoos.
Four independent points.
First is that tattoos are a form of free speech.
So we think that a lot of the ways that people interpret tattoos and specifically the values that the value that tattoos have to people is rooted in the fact that they're a form of expression.
People often use tattoos as a way of communicating their values, personal life experiences, and as such have a pretty emotional attachment to them.
We think that this much like other forms of things that are more commonly regarded as forms of expression and forms of speech are is rooted in the fact that it is integral to the person's identity and it is a way of communicating something.
We think then that as a general rule of thumb because we are a free and liberal society that cares about free speech, that cares about the right to self expression, that anything that an individual deems to be or anything that large portions of society deem to be an integral form of expression should be allowed.
This is especially true when the only person internalising the potential harms of that expression are themselves.
So I think one good example of this is that controversial opinions even if you know airing them might get you punched in the face are still legal, like the person that saying the thing that might get them punched in the face can say it because they're the one internalizing the harm.
Other things like say hate speech might be more debatable because you know that's someone else internalizing the harm but we don't think those types of harms really apply to the tattoo debate and as such the person should be able to express themselves however they see fit.
This leads me into my second argument that relative benefits mean that the government isn't the best actor to actually make a decision on whether or not a tattoo is a good idea for somebody.
We think that this is essentially a cost-benefit decision on whether or not you get a tattoo that they're you know certainly health harms and there are certainly pain factors and things like that to take into account but we think that for some people the benefits of tattoos are very great and for others they're not worth it.
We think though that people and not governments are best at making decisions about those relative costs and benefits on an individual level and as such we think that the world in which people are happiest is one in which we just tell people look you can make that decision for yourself that's your own perogative and we're not going to pretend like we know what's best for you.
Our third and our third independent point is that even if tattoos are just like objectively a bad idea for everybody, people still have an affirmative right to consent into harm.
So we think that this is true because largely people don't like being told what to do.
People enjoy their autonomy especially in free and liberal societies and as such we think it's important to preserve that right if for no reason other than it is just democratically will to be so.
People often lose their trust in institutions and authority at large when they are told that they can't do things that they think are intrinsically their right.
We think public polling and just sort of like attitudes you could probably get from walking around on the street generally ratify the notion that you know getting a tattoo is just an individual choice and it's not the government's place to institute a ban.
At that point then we think that for the sake of trusted institutions and for the sake in respecting the democratic will, it's just important to make people let this decision even if it's just an objectively bad thing for them.
Our fourth independent point is that this policy will most likely lead to a black market that articulates all of the same harms government already said but worse.
So we think that these black market arguments get thrown around a lot and that usually they're thrown away in like frivolous ways.
We think tattoos are a very clear cut example though of something where a black market could easily develop.
This is because a, there is significant demand for tattoos.
Lots of people are going to get them prisons for example demonstrate that people do continue to get them even when it's explicitly banned but secondly, because a tattoo just requires like a needle and some ink, it's pretty easy to do them in a black market.
You can get the materials necessary to give somebody a tattoo relatively easily.
We think that without the proper regulation that exists very heavily in the status quo, the tattoo industry in a black market rapidly becomes a source of you know unhygienic conditions of unlicensed and underqualified tattoo artists and a slew of other problems that link in exactly to what government is afraid of, but articulated in a much more harmful way.
Proud to oppose.