I'm proud to stand opposition of today's motion, that tower blocks are bad.
I think it's important to recognize that cities, unlike what the government has told you, are a good thing.
That the increase economic efficiency, that they increase opportunity for historically disadvantaged groups.
As a result of this I'm proud to stand in opposition to the idea that we should reduce centralization of living.
So, three independent points here: first, that you increase the stock amount of housing and that that brings lots of benefits, second, that you increase centralization and density of populations, again, this is something that brings distinct benefits, and thirdly, that side payments to cities that are usually intrinsic to tower blocks create large amounts of revenue for cities that can be then used for extremely beneficial purposes.
So first on the note of increasing housing.
Its important recognizing that the comparative here, that like shorter buildings versus taller buildings is always going to favor taller buildings in terms of the amount of housing built.
That's because of basic things like economies of scale make it easy to build high rises for comparatively small amounts of money.
It is easy, it is cheaper to build one fifty story building than it is to build two twenty five story buildings.
That's important because it means that you solve for housing shortages when you have a higher supply of housing.
This has three things out of this: first, it means you have a less efficient economy when there's a housing shortage, right?
Because you just don't have people living in like centralized areas, you have people that are struggling to find homes, that have to move out to suburbs and as a result of that you don't access the centralization benefits that we'll talk about later.
Second, homelessness goes up when there's less homes to live in.
When there is a shortage in the people that can, only the people that can afford the like houses that currently exist on the market are the ones capable of buying in, you have increased incidences of homelessness, and thirdly, you had increased housing costs in a world where there is less supply.
This is basic to economics, right?
Like when there is shortages in supply the cost goes up.
So given that, we think it's worth recognizing that more housing is a good thing.
Second independent point is centralization.
So centralization happens when you build these tower blocks, you centralize large amounts of people into a dense space.
That's good for two reasons: first it increases the multiplier effect on the local economy.
Proximity means that you spend less money on transport, which means you have more discretionary income for things like groceries or local stores or things like that, and as a result, because you live literally above a retail section at the ground floor of your building, you are more likely to spend money in your local economy and that circulates throughout basic multiplier effect.
It is stronger in a world where you're able to more directly engage with your local economy.
But secondly, it decreases pollution because you have less transportation and things like that.
You're not taking the train or driving your car because most of the things that you need are in your immediate neighborhood, and as a result of that like greenhouse gas emissions and things like that that are usually intrinsic to transportation don't happen in a world with more tower blocks.
It's also worth recognizing that even if a tower block itself is a large polluter in terms of smokestacks and things like that, the comparative is lots of smaller houses which again, because of economies of scale and things like that, mean that is easy, there's more net pollution in a world where you have lots of small houses as opposed to small numbers of big houses.
The third independent point is side payments to the city.
This increases revenue.
So, often when you have these tower blocks one of two things happens: one you're literally buying it on city property, in which case you actually have to pay the city a large amount of money to buy the property, because if you're building a tower block there, presumably that land is very valuable.
But secondly, even if you're not buying it directly from the city, you are to pay huge amounts of property taxes to the city because you're building so many units on one piece of land.
That's important because it increases the city coffers.
Think like, for example, in boston recently, winthrop square garage, which was this run down the crapper garage, was sold to a private developer which is now building a several dozen story skyscraper on that property.
That money was then, the money from purchasing that land was then redirected into things like parks, social safety nets, affordable housing, public housing construction, things like that.
So this money is recirculated back into the into the city coffers in a way that helps the people who are worse off in society, that are most at risk, that are most likely to suffer in the status quo, and you can allow the construction of these tower blocks to solve for that suffering in the short term.
Proud to oppose.