I'm proud to support the motion that we should raise the corporate income tax.
Two independent points, first is that a higher corporate income tax disincentivizes saving income on the part of corporations.
So what we mean by this is when a corporation gets some money you know like they sell stuff and then they get a profit and then they have capital on their hands, they can do one of two things with it.
They could either save it, that is like stash it away in some bank account so they can just use it on a rainy day or they can reinvest it into other things.
They can hire more workers, they could buy more machinery, they can buy land, they can construct new buildings.
This will obviously vary from business to business but the general gist of what we're saying in here is they can do things that fuel economic growth.
That is hire more people, you have a stronger economy, you build more buildings, you produce more goods, the economy of the country is stronger on the whole.
We think then that when you raise the corporate income tax you disincentivize the type of behavior that is more like oh okay we're just going to put this in a bank and save it for later where it just kind of languishes without being used in a way that is constructive towards the expansion of the economy.
On our side of the house, that money is used proactively.
We think that op is probably going to come up here and say something to the effect of like oh but if you raise the corporate income tax rate like they're just like gonna be disincentivized to making any profit at all.
Like one I think this is like a fundamental misunderstanding on the part that just like corporations no matter what rate you tax them at will still try to make money.
But secondly I think it's really important to note that the distinction between profit and like revenue that is like intake because if a corporation say makes a windfall they sell a really cool product or whatever and they make millions of dollars if they just put that in a bank then that is all profit it all gets taxed but if they reinvest it that is they actively spend it then that can be counted as something that is an expense that is not profit it actively counts against your profit and actively lowers the amount of taxes that you have to pay.
Corporate taxation actually incentivizes corporations then to spend that money because specifically it allows them to write it off of their taxes essentially and then be more encouraged to do that the higher the taxation rate is.
Our second independent point though is that this is simply fair that we believe in a proportional tax system and that this is coherent with that world view.
So what we mean by a proportional taxation system is it is one that taxes people at a higher rate when they are wealthier and the underlying theory behind this is just that like wealthy people and corporations by extension are more capable of paying a higher percentage of their income.
You know really poor people for example have to pay large percentages of their income towards basic day-to-day expenditures things like food, shelter whereas richer people will have more disposable income that can be used towards savings or something so it is fair to tax that sort of income that is less necessary for basic day-to-day functions.
So what we see though in terms of the corporate tax is that lots of capital in this country money in general is tied up in corporations.
This is partially because wealthy people own corporations and thus can just put their money into corporations but it's also partially because corporations themselves are just money making machines that by virtue of the way a corporation is if it does well it will have lots of money.
We think then that a just tax system should target places where there is lots of money.
You have to take revenue from somewhere, we would prefer to take it then from cash flush corporations then from comparatively cash poor individuals.
We think then by raising the corporate income tax we can lower the individual income tax and put a higher burden of this country's expenses on the backs of wealthy corporations rather than just like your day-to-day individuals who are struggling to get by.
Proud to propose.