I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should abandon television.
Two independent points.
First, that it is a pleasurable activity and second, that it leads to good art in the comparative.
So on the first point that it's pleasurable, I think it's fairly intuitive that television is something that we enjoy watching like people just get a lot out of this, they are able to sort of imagine these like fanciful worlds in the same way that we do this when we read fiction books or when we watch movies, things like that.
I don't think gov really contests that people like watching TV.
What they do tell you is that it erodes our work ethic.
That it just creates like this nation of zombies and that this is a terrible thing.
So I think on face, they don't really warrant why this is true.
Like I think, generally speaking, people can watch TV and still continue to be functional people.
I know I manage it pretty well.
But even beyond that, like even if you take at face value what they tell you and are just like yes like everyone just has horrible work ethics now, I think the problem with this is that pain and pleasure really just are the only things that matter right?
Like the only objective standards we have to go by about whether or not something is good is just whether or not it makes people happy.
They go oh but like work ethic is a thing that matters.
I think two things on this.
First is that work ethic is just a means to an end.
It's just a way of being like okay well here are some good outcomes that we see if people actually try to do their best in like work as a whole and that leads to a better society, but I think if the trade-off is something that makes people happier than that tool that you were using as a means to make people happy then we are fine defending the use of that thing that makes people happy.
But second, that conception of what the good life looks like.
One where you do a lot of work and you're a productive member of society, is intensely subjective.
It's based on individual preferences but there's no reason why any other individual can't just be like hey I like this other way of living.
I think this other lifestyle is perfectly fine and I enjoy it and I'm going to do it.
I don't think there's any reason that gov gives you why that conception of the good life is a bad thing.
I think all they do is demonstrate that television is incompatible with the version the good life that he gives you, but if people just want to watch TV all day and that makes them happy like I just don't think there's a reason why they can't do that.
On the second point, that it leads to good r and like good media in general, so it's important to recognize that serialization is a good thing for involving more depth in story telling.
You can only do so much for the film or book or what have you with a serialized TV show that occurs on a weekly basis over the course of multiple season you can get a lot of character development, you can get a lot of depth to the plot, you can make a lot of social commentary because you are constantly coming back every week and like reporting back on this weeks current events.
There's a lot you can do with the serialized nature of television that other forms of art just can't achieve.
Then on gov they're like oh well there's trash TV out there like reality TV and things like that.
So I think there's three problems with that at first, is that there's been trash films too.
There's trash books like pulp fiction exists right?
Like the track pulp fiction like the type of book right?
Like there are bad movies out there like I just don't think that this is a meaningful comparative.
Second, if people enjoy it, let them be right?
Like if they find whatever you deem to be trash fun then that they can do their thing and you can do your thing I don't think there's an affirmative reason why people just shouldn't be able to watch what they want watch and third, like it's words just like kinda clenching your feet in teeth in exchange for like really good art right?
Like I'm willing to deal with whatever the externalities are of like like housewives of beverly hills existing if it means an exchange that I get to watch master of none.
I think that's a fair trade-off.
Proud to oppose.