I'm proud to support the motion that we should abolish gratuities.
So we'll model this generally as like in a lot of countries it is common practice to give out gratuities for good service so see like wait staff for example in the united states are often tipped this then is often factored into wage laws so for example in the united states wait staff don't have to be paid the same minimum wage as other professions do because you're allowed to count tips towards their wages so we would just say like abolish the gratuities and instead just apply standard minimum wage law to these professions.
Our first independent point is that gratuity based wages make it such that the individual worker is receiving an inconsistent stream of revenue or wages.
This is true because your income on a week-to-week basis essentially fluctuates based on just like how generous of a tipper you happen to get that week.
But secondly it's it it's problematic, specifically the issue that that causes for the individual is it makes it difficult for them to do really basic important things like budgeting.
Just not knowing how much money you're going to get next week creates significant issues for individuals being able to predict how much money I'm going to have to pay my rent or to pay for any other number of recurring expenses.
As a result then we think that it is better just have standard like flat rate, this how many hours you work this is how much money you get for these workers so that they can budget effectively.
Our second independent point is that this system excuses low base pays.
So as I explained in the model a lot of places will essentially tell you hey look like we're not gonna pay you standard minimum wage we can get away with that because you're going to make a certain amount on tips.
The problem with this is two fold.
First, that line in the sand, the adjusted minimum wage, is usually a bit lower than it should be because of the strength of small business lobbies things like the chamber of commerce for example lobby get a legislative bodies to say oh we'll push the minimum wage for servers to like lower because they're making tips and then usually congress just kind of rolls with whatever the chamber of commerce tells them that the line in the sand should be.
But secondly, it creates a problem because people just don't know how much you're going to get tipped.
As a result then we think that the more likely scenario is that on a lot of weeks you're just not going to make as many tips as one might expect you often would and as a result you just get lower pay than makes sense.
I think if like generally you agree with any principle justifications for why a minimum wage should exist you should see that this is inherently a problem.
Our third independent point though is that the current state of the minimum wage penalizes like reasonable nice people who don't want to see servers being underpaid.
We think in the status quo there are a lot of people who were generous or at least just like reasonable tippers to give your standard you know seventeen to twenty percent for tip for food that is hopefully the wide majority but obviously that's not always the case.
Obviously there are people who just don't tip properly.
So what you wind up with then is a system that pays for the wages of these individuals with differential rates of payment into that wage pool based pretty much just on how good of a person you are.
That is that people who are like decent individuals who want to see these servers get a living wage wind up paying more towards their wages then stingier people who are going to leave bad tips.
That in turn means that the actual cost of living for like good people is higher.
We think that is inherently unjust and we think that alone justifies the abolition of tipping.
Proud to propose.