I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that prenatal diagnosis should be mandatory.
Our first independent point regards autonomy.
And specifically bodily autonomy.
We think that first, that there are legitimate reasons why an individual might want to not have prenatal diagnosis performed upon them.
One, these are invasive procedures that involve you know putting instruments inside of your body and these can be, in addition to physically uncomfortable, can make an individual you know emotionally uncomfortable.
Second, there is you know a time element associated with this as well as a monetary element that doctors don't perform these services for free and furthermore it takes a certain amount of time out of your day to actually go and get this done.
And third that there's an emotional component with it.
That some people just legitimately might not want to know.
We think that there are legitimate reasons, therefore, for you know actually wanting these diagnoses not performed upon you.
So given that there are legitimate justifications then, why do we think this is particularly important to bodily autonomy?
We say that bodily autonomy is, broadly speaking, the right to do as you please with your own body.
And you know at the point where you have a fetus inside of you, that fetus is an extension of your own body.
We think this is true for you know primarily two reasons.
One is that it is physically connected to your body, and anything that happens to the fetus is by extension going to have a direct effect upon your body.
But secondly, we think that, generally speaking, the standard by which we apply rights either, one, plain pain slash pleasure that is something can experience pain and, two, you know essentially an intelligent space construct of rights.
Either way we don't think that that rights construct actually extends to fetuses.
That they don't qualify as humans yet and as such they're really just an extension of the mother's body.
Therefore, the mother has the proactive right to do as she pleases with her own body and we think that because there are legitimate justifications why an individual might not want a prenatal diagnosis, they have the right to do as they please with their body or, more appropriately phrased, they have the right to prevent others from doing as they please upon their bodies.
Our second independent point is that this procedure incurs, by being mandatory, incurs mandatory expenses upon individuals and that this is disproportionately harmful to the poor.
So, specifically, when we're referring to any you know medical procedure actually there are obviously costs associated with it.
No doctor works for free and even if your insurance covers this insurance pools are based on the notion that you know they're going to pay out a certain amount so they need certain amounts of money brought in by people being insured.
So even if it's not clear on the paper this is implicitly rising the rate of your insurance.
All of this considered, therefore, it's important to recognize that this then puts a mandatory expense on poorer individuals and as such we think that's fundamentally unjust.
For one, we think, just in terms of property rights, it is always fundamentally unjust to put a mandatory expense on any individual, that people have the right to do as they please with their personal property and as such this constitutes a violation of property rights, that is the capital that you would have to expend to you know have this procedure done upon you.
But secondly, we think that there is a harm in that you are forcing people who don't necessarily have the means to pay for this procedure to then pay for this procedure.
This constitutes an undue burden and as such makes the policy proposed by side government unjust.
Proud to oppose.