I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should fight nationalism.
In terms of the model this is you know something sort of broad but generally we would say that we want to you know take steps to combat the ideology of nationalism.
So maybe that means public discourse, you know maybe that means you know simply endorsing viewpoints that run directly counter to nationalism such as multiculturalism, but the main take away here is that we want to actively dispel this ideology in the public discoursing in the public mind.
Three independent points.
The first being that nationalism is a huge driver of international and even internal conflict.
Nationalism at its core contends that a certain group of people is inherently preferable to another group of people.
This is often disguised as a sense of pride or you know civic pride or whatever but this is broadly always going to be something that people will look at and use as an excuse to justify their superiority.
Everything from something as you know harmless as like a preference of a sports team in the olympics all the way up to you know actual acts of genocide and warfare are justified to this ideology.
And the significantly less harmless ones where people you know actually engage in international violence those are worth mitigating to a severe extent and we think that even if there are benefits on you know domestic level to having nationalism as a coalescing force we think that that the scope of international conflict a serious suffering that it creates is worth getting rid of and we think that that's always going to be a more significant weighing point.
Our second independent point is that this drives xenophobia.
So specifically what I mean is the admission of people from other countries into your country you know with migrants with refugees with just immigration in general this is a mitigating force.
We think that necessarily immigration is important people you know that are in other countries are often suffering at the hands of some sort of you know malady hardship or dictator within that country and it is obviously preferable for them to be in a country where they're not experiencing that hardship.
However you know the united states is a prime example of this.
There's often a sense of nationalism, a sense of individual pride in one's own country that precludes the in the you know the admission of people from other locations and as a result people are left to suffer in countries that cannot properly provide for them by virtue of other people's nationalism.
We think that fundamentally this is an extreme problem and that we should you know mitigate basically the the ideology that justifies this.
Our third independent point is that there is an internal purity test that that is associated with nationalism on a domestic level that then justifies significant amounts of oppression and acts of violence.
So what I mean by this is that when you look to again using the united states is an example a a large part of you know discrimination against citizens who are black or latino for example is often rooted in the sense that they're not real americans that you know people from the midwest largely white largely rural consider themselves you know the real america and this at its core is nationalism.
This is a sense that you know america is you know preferable to other countries and that you represent the true america.
This is a problem then because it's often used to justify acts of violence and oppression against these minority communities who you know from a citizenship perspective are no less american than anybody else but they just don't fit into a particular subculture within that country that has been declared to be the true america.
This is a problem obviously.
It results in acts of violence, it results in you know housing discrimination, everything from you know small stuff like interpersonal interactions all the way up to you to you know large scale government policies that actively discriminate against these groups.
At that point then we think the ideology that justifies this should be actively combated.
Proud to propose.