I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should end mandatory retirement.
Two independent points, the first of which is that often individuals at an older age are incapable of performing the duties of their job.
So we think that there are fairly intuitive reasons why, in certain industries, the mental fortitude and the physical fortitude that is associated with certain responsibilities is simply something that some individuals cannot carry on with.
Specifically, mandatory retirement is often targeted to specific industries, like the military, so often these requirements then track industries where there is reason to believe that an elderly individual is either physically or mentally incapable of performing their duties.
Specifically, what gov tells you, is that basically they try to spike this out by telling you that you can just ask someone to retire or fire them if they're truly doing a bad job.
I think there's two problems with this.
The first is that there are shades of gray associated with this.
So it takes a lot to fire someone and often people will just say no if you tell them to retire.
So I think there's a big middle zone here where there can be some serious harm inflicted by a systemically important role before they're actually just forced to retire by being fired.
The second issue though r is that often these retirements apply specifically to people that are at the top of their command chains, which means that they have the power and leverage to just continue onwards no matter what.
That is to say that they can threaten to fire people that are subordinates of them, they can just exercise their influence to be abstinent, they are often difficult to fire because they are so high up in the command chain, they can institute they can use like their leverage with personal relationships with other people that are towards the top of the command chain, there are lots of way these people that, without some sort of outside intervention, can can continue to hold their positions despite ineptitude.
At that point then we think that a specific government provision to intervene is justified.
Our second independent point is turn over.
So we think that there's intrinsic value, particularly in leadership positions, towards turning over responsibility on a fairly frequent basis and having new people at the helm.
The justification for this is that there are new ideas that are often associated with new generations.
New ways of thinking about things, new ways of adapting to new technologies and new realities, and is such that young blood holds intrinsic value to the institution.
That can be from anything as military to the universities to private institutions.
So we think that often then having a specific policy in place that ensures that there is frequent turnover is a good policy.
That makes sure that we're seeing new ideas in systemically important institutions and we're seeing frequent change in a way that is beneficial to the people at large.
I want to briefly discuss the importance of systemic institutions like the military because it is then reasonable to hold these institutions to a higher standard because they are systemically important.
Something that has such a profound impact on so many people and society at large needs to be held to a higher standard.
Private institutions, like companies, are permitted to fail for the reason that, largely speaking, the people who will suffer if they fail are people who are stakeholders that consented into being stakeholders.
Something like the military however, if it makes large, strategic, big picture mistakes, can harm lots of people.
As such it's important to hold these groups to higher standards and ensure that they are run as best as possible.
Because we think that there are multiple people qualified for the top job this will often be okay.
We're not taking experienced people out and the position where we're putting in people who are completely unqualified given that then the new blood will ensure better tactics, newer tactics, and better responsiveness to a changing world.
Proud to oppose.