I'm proud to stand a proposition of today's motion that we should abolish the american jobs act.
To independent points: first is that the protections that were granted by the bill against hiring discrimination are harmful to the market and that we should roll them back.
So what the american jobs act did in terms of hiring discrimination was create a statute that banned discrimination in hiring against people based on their employment status.
That is if someone was unemployed, and basically employers sort of smelled a rat based on that, that they saw as a signal that people could not hold down a job and as such that they were less willing to hire them.
That that was an unjust reason to fail to hire somebody and as such that employers could not do that anymore.
I think the problem with this logic, however, is that it insists that employers just use this as an auto red stamp.
That being someone who is currently unemployed means that you just like cannot get a job.
I don't think that's true though, because I think it is reasonable to use this as a factor.
Unemployment is a signal.
Like it is a signal that someone was not able to hold down a job for a decent amount of time or even if it was something out of their control, like a recession, it means that they as opposed to other people in the country lost their job.
I think that's telling for a lot of companies.
Because it means that this person was probably a worse worker than other people at the time.
This is a problem then, that we are not allowing employers to make decisions based on that basis because it is a legitimate reason to think that someone might not be as qualified as another applicant.
It doesn't constitute an automatic x, but I really just don't think employers are doing that.
Is not a way in which employers take a look at an applicant say: " oh you were unemployed previously therefore there is no way I will hire you ", rather they are much more inclined to say: " okay, this is one reason why I am suspicious of this individual and one reason why I am less inclined in the comparative to hire this person. "
But it is not an automatic disqualification.
My second independent point is that the tax cuts intrinsic to the policy don't work.
So, one of the main ways in which the american jobs act really tried to get by and was sort of the underpinning of the bill was a large amount of tax cuts.
Specifically tax credits for the long term unemployed as well as tax cuts on payroll tax cuts on payroll taxes, and as well as some other small business deregulation that resulted in some tax cuts as well.
This is all a problem.
Because the underlying logic for this is that essentially: " oh well if we don't tax people they'll be more capable of working and then by extension those people will sort of have more economic activity which in turn will generate more tax revenue.
The problem is that this is been tried before.
In fact, that this is exactly what's going on right now in kansas and it's not going particularly well for kansas.
In fact, there is a economic basis for this called the laffer curve, that the philosophy behind it is that this exists on a gradient.
That if you tax people all of their wealth though stop working in you won't get any tax revenue, and if you tax none of them then you won't have any money to spend on social services.
So the ideal spot is somewhere in the middle.
The problem is that this bill's underlying philosophy is just: " oh well median must be lower taxes than the status quo. "
But there's no basis for making that proclamation.
And I think the long term what that results in then, it's just less tax revenue to spend on things like the social services that are actually the way in which we ensure that people can get their jobs back.
That's how you create the jobs programs.
That's how you create the infrastructure spending.
That's how you create the welfare benefits.
And I don't think you're going to be able to sustainably create those programs and continue to fund them without a steady tax stream.
Proud to propose.