I'm proud to support the motion that we should ban tattoos.
Two independent points, first is that information asymmetries mean that people can't consent into the inherent harms associated with getting tattoos.
We think that a lot of the time people get tattoos for largely social reasons that they are pressured into it either by individuals that they know or pressured into it by larger social systems, that is the sort of aesthetic coolness of getting a tattoo.
We think then that insofar as this is the major motivating force and this is so systemically important to people's identities, they are unlikely to say no to those significant pressures.
But these pressures often are not pressures that inform people of what will go wrong if they get a tatto, things that could potentially hurt them.
We think specifically that there are three.
First is just physical pain associate with getting a tattoo that having a needle stuck into your skin and like driving ink into it is just really painful process.
A lot of people probably wouldn't sign up for if they knew how painful it was.
Second is employment harms that because tattoos are permanent it could really undermine your long term prospects for getting a job.
There's significant stigma in the society against people with tattoos that we think we are unlikely to be able to combat as a government institution and as such people are going to suffer the harms of decreased employment opportunities.
And thirdly is the risk of contracting things like diseases.
This is a needle, this is penetrating your skin, and it is affecting your bloodstream.
People can get diseases such as STD's through needles and we think that a lot of shops a lot of like tattoo parlors don't clean their material or their equipment properly.
I guess you can like put lawsuits against this but like people open new tattoo parlors all the time like this is something that's often pretty tough to avoid so I think as a result of that then what you're going to see is just a lot of people wind up with like diseases contracted through tattoos also like infections and things like that can happen.
Our second independent point though regards the fact that because this is a permanent decision that can have future effects we don't think it is just for an individual to create such permanent effects on their future self.
First, we want to philosophically distinguish that your future self is a distinct person from you.
This is because you as an individual are made up of a series or constellation of thoughts, ideas, and preferences.
That is the basis of what makes up an individual.
We think that if you put a given brain in a different body it would still be the same person because it still has that same identity, preferences, things like that.
The problem though is that those things change pretty drastically as you get older that as time goes on you just want different things, you identify in a different way, you have different friends, you have different opinions.
We think that even if there is a vague sense of continuity in who you are even just things like losing memories is enough to trigger a distinction between you and your future self as distinct individuals.
Given that then we think that getting a tattoo forces your future self that is a different person into harms that they did not consent into.
The reasoning behind this then as to why this makes it unjust is that you cannot just consent other people into harm.
I can't just point at a random person and say yeah I think that person wants a tattoo there's harms and benefits but I'm going to make that decision for them.
We think that in the same way you're not allowed to do that for your future self insofar as they are a distinct person.
Proud to propose.