I'm proud to stand in opposition to today's motion that we should abolish private schools, or ban them.
So to independent points here: first is that resource competition is created under this world.
I think this happens in three ways: first, because as gov seems to admit, the funding is more or less static in both worlds.
You derive funding for public schools from property taxes and absent some colossal shift in property ownership or who goes where, that's not going to change, I'll get to that in a bit, but it's worth noting that if that remains constant you have a larger number of kids, that is the people who went to the private schools and the people who currently go to the public schools, now all competing for that same pool of resources.
This is a problem because it means that just on a individual basis, those students get less money per student.
Bigger class sizes, less funding for resources that the school needs like instruments are scientific instruments, these types of things become scarcer and education is worse off for it.
Secondly, political power means that wealthier students in a public school setting will have access to those resources to a greater degree.
So I think a good example of this is parent teacher associations, which are whose strength is largely derived from the parents who have the time to actually dedicate large amounts of time to actually working in these parent teacher associations and the money to actually fund them by which is derived political power over what the PTA does.
So, these types of organizations have significant sway over not just like the individual things that they get to fund, so like what field trips and things like that, but also they get sway over the political structure of the school.
That is, school board elections and things like that, and by extension really high level decisions like whether or not you're going to funnel more money into accelerated classes that contain disproportionately wealthy students.
Those are decisions that come down to the people that are wealthier with in the district.
So we think that by forcing these wealthy students who were previously going to private schools to now operate within the public school system, all that does is create an incentive for wealthier parents to crowd out the younger students from the political process and deciding where resources are allocated to.
Third, I think this is really important, is even in govs like dream world where people just like coalesce around like these individual locations based on, well, signaling, their world still has that.
Right?
Like there is still people making active decisions on what public school system to live in, so that their kid goes to a better public school.
I think scarsdale in new york is a good example of this, where you have a school that is, yes, public to the absolute extreme.
Like, it is just a normal public school but it lives it is housed in a very very wealthy area and by extension it is well funded and like there is a lot of wealth crowding around that area.
So even if gov is correct in saying that people will just flock to these areas with private schools, I think that is still true with public schools.
My second independent point is school choice.
So I think there's really two ways to go about this.
Is one, sort of the more higher level things like religious identity.
This is really important.
We think at the point where certain types of education are core to individuals' identities, it is important to give them the ability to actually actualize upon that identity, and get the education that they deem necessary.
I don't think there is any way that we can just say it is illegitimate for, say very conservative christians to say, this very orthodox christians rather, to say: " this is the way that we want our like children to be raised up.
This is what our religion dictates. "
At the point where it's so fundamental to your belief structure I think that's legitimate.
But also just ideology in terms of what you think good education looks like.
For example if you think that montessori schools are just significantly better ways of actually getting children educated then I don't think there's anything illegitimate about allowing children to allowing parents to put their children into those schools instead.
Proud to oppose.