I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should end fluoridation of water.
So I our first independent point while gov largely concedes this, I do you want to establish it because I think it's important to the weighing in this round, is that there are significant health benefits to water fluoridation.
So, gov again does point out that there are you know basically that the basis for doing this is to mitigate dental issues that having fluoride in your body and specifically you know coming through your mouth and hitting your teeth is something that ensures that you're less likely to get cavity gingivitis, experience other dental and mouth and oral issues.
That in turn is something that's important to the individual.
First off there is a scientific consensus that this is true not only true that it helps and benefits the individual but also that the harms of fluoridation are minimal if they even exist which they almost certainly do not.
So then this is important for health.
We think that you know not having access to a proper amount of fluoride could have a specifically detrimental impact on individuals and we think that specifically this is then extremely important to ensure that people have access to.
We'd even say that this is a right.
Health is an important right insofar as it's facilitative more broadly to your right to life and generally speaking you're right to just not suffer.
And we think that you know something like having a cavity or gingivitis can certainly in the developing world actually be a threat to your life because a lack of medical care especially to poorer individuals often isn't available.
But also even just the discomfort caused by these ailments is something that government should actively seek to relieve.
Given that then we think there are particularly strong benefits to ensuring access to this type of tooth fluoridation into ensuring that individuals you know have that proper access.
This brings me to my second point then, that health is something that necessarily outweighs the choice argumentation put forward by side government.
Gov tells you there is basically a a question of whether or not you want to force people to make the decision to have fluoride in their water.
This is a problem then because I think the issues particularly in the countries discussed where affordability is a question is that it's not feasible for individuals who want fluoride to actually access it.
Gov talks to you about like brushing your teeth.
One, I don't think this is universal as gov actually thinks it is.
There's a lot of places in the world were brushing your teeth twice a day just isn't a norm but also there's an affordability component I don't think that a, brushing your teeth twice a day actually achieves you know all the health benefits you want from an oral perspective unless you're getting an access to fluoride.
But secondly, there is that affordability component that a lot of people can't even really brush their teeth regularly.
That poses a problem then, basically whether or not you fluoride put fluoride in the water specifically give citizens access to fluoride, free of cost.
Some people will want it, some people won't want it.
I think first, most people want it.
There is a significantly larger number of people that want it.
But secondly, when you're approaching this from a choice perspective, it's important to recognize that the people who don't want fluoride in their water also have the choice to just buy bottled water.
In fact, whoever doesn't want the type of tap water that's coming through, the fluoridated water or the non-fluoridated water, will most likely have to buy the other type of water.
So the question then is two fold.
One, do you put the onerous benefit of buying that water on the larger population or the smaller population?
I think it's quite clear that you should put that burden on this the larger or smaller population.
But two, do you put that burden on the people who are right or the people who are wrong?
And I think you should probably put that burden on the people who are wrong and are flying in the face of science and good literature.
Proud to oppose.