I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should limit the right to asylum.
Our first independent point is that judicious application of the right to asylum mitigates suffering on a worldwide spectrum.
We think often that like a lot of the people that are going to be cut out of the equation when we talk about limiting asylum are often going to be people that, as gov explains, don't have much to offer the country , you know, your scientists, your intellectuals, those types.
They can usually get in on a standard visa program and just immigrate through the traditional structure because their skills are in high demand.
Specifically what we're looking at then, the people who need the right to asylum, are people that are: a, in extreme suffering.
Think refugees of syria, for example.
But b, people who are also not capable of providing for themselves in the standards in which they currently live.
We think this is extremely problematic because, generally speaking, suffering is a bad thing.
We don't want people to live in poverty when they don't have to.
We don't want people to live in active war zones when they don't have to.
So given that, we think that granting asylum to large numbers of people, even if it is not particularly to the benefit of the people living within an individual country, still mitigates suffering on a wider basis.
We are fine with some degree of public funds, even a large degree of public funds, being used for people that are not from that country.
We still think that it is important to help those who do not have the means to support themselves and particularly those who do not have the means to support themselves by virtue of circumstances that were completely out of their control.
Our second independent point is the multicultural benefits brought forward by granting more people the right to asylum.
We think that a lot of the things that are driving low rates of granting access to asylum are largely xenophobic narratives, things about changing the domestic culture and the integrity of, you know, what currently makes x country x.
The problem with this is that I think multiculturalism brings a slew of benefits: changing the food, changing , you know, certain social attitudes, like there are just lots of benefits to when cultures come to meet.
And specifically, we think this is important because no specific conception of culture is inherently correct, and often they're riddled with errors, our personal beliefs and our fundamental core values are often a product of our upbringing, and as such I don't think any one world view is inherently correct just because we happen to grow up in x society doesn't mean x society is inherently correct about everything.
And when cultures engage in some sort of cultural dialogue that is often facilitated by living in close quarters through large amounts of immigration, we think that is beneficial for both cultures.
Our third and final point is that unskilled labor, contrary to what government tells you, is actually quite good for the host country.
So, specifically, government is concerned with a large influx of unskilled laborers sucking up a lot of like public resources and good without doing much to contribute to the economy.
I think one particularly good example, though, of large amounts of immigrants benefiting the economy of a nation is mexican immigration to the united states.
Often, developed countries will think that certain forms of unskilled labor are beneath them, things like, you know, skinning and packaging fish, for example, in the gulf coast.
This often means that key manufacturing industries that are vital to the economy of the united states would be left to languish if not for the fact that there're extremely impoverished individuals who are willing to take up that work, that are predominantly immigrants.
Likewise, granting asylum to people from places of extreme suffering opens up the opportunity to staff manufacturing plants with individuals who are willing to undergo work, and that doesn't just provide a benefit for the individuals in that plant or even the managers of it.
We think that this is also important to decreasing shipping costs for industries that use those goods.
We think it's important for spillover benefits to local economies in terms of tax revenue and things like that.
Given that, we think that this is something that is beneficial for the economy as a whole.
Proud to oppose.