I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce recall elections.
Three independent points, the first of which is that it kills the ability of politicians to take risks or think in the long term.
The reason for this is first starting with risks: the politicians will often make decisions, this is like for their signature policy moves, based on the idea that when they introduce the policy, it might not be popular, but they need time to actually get the public on their side.
They'll launch campaigns to, you know, generate support, that sort of thing.
So at the outset, then, of this public policy campaign, they'll usually, you know, see a popularity dip, because they're, you know, spearheading this policy that initially isn't that popular.
This is a problem.
We don't think that voters should ever be viewed in this like point-in-time portrait, because people's preferences change over time.
Not only does the political landscape and circumstances change, but also people's beliefs change based on what their, you know, sold essentially.
If you're told a specific type of healthcare system, for example, is a good idea, and you're given the arguments for it, you might change your mind.
This is a problem, then, because we think that politicians are less likely to engage in these sort of like radical game-changing moves when they're worried that the short-term effects on them are going to basically be the end all be all, that they'll get a recall election thrown in their face.
Likewise, we think long-term policy decisions, you know, things that might hurt in the short term, but in the long term are extremely beneficial, are also unlikely to materialize, because the here and now of the your recall election will always be an existential threat to the politician.
We think a lot of the most important advances in political history have been these risk-taking moves or these long-term policy initiatives, things like healthcare reform, but also other stuff like a lot of the new deal, for example, under FDR, a lot of social policies like, for example, gay rights movements, that sort of thing.
So we think, then, that if you disallow the political system to essentially move forward in time by disincentivizing risk-taking and long-term policy decisions, then you really mitigate the ability of this country to progress in any meaningful way.
Our second independent point is that essentially voters are prone to make poor decisions when they're only given a a short amount of time to make that decision in.
We think, again, that these sort of point-in-time portraits of the voting base are inherently problematic, not just because people have a tendency to turn on a dime and make decisions that are seemingly contradictory and anathema to ones that they held in recent memory, but also that in these particular elections, the people most likely to show up are the opposition.
Generally, the way political systems work is that especially in sort of like these modern systems that we see in the west, where there's a lot of like negativity and polarization, their support is much less fervent than opposition.
That is, people will often vote for somebody because they definitely don't want to vote for the other one.
That means that in a recall election, it's unlikely that one's supporters will show up in droves, because recall elections aren't staged against a particular opponent, it's just a referendum on the individual.
We think, then, that this means the politicians will often be ousted and then replaced with comparatively less popular ones, because people are just taking a referendum on the individual rather than looking at the comparative.
Our third and final independent point regards the complexity of these elections and specifically the government instability that occurs from them.
As mentioned earlier, you're not running against a specific individual.
So when these recall elections are successful, they often yield governmental instability because that individual is then taken out of office.
There is a significant curtailing of the ability of a state government to act, for example, if its governor is told you're going to get thrown out of office as soon as we can find your replacement.
This then mitigates the efficacy of the government in providing, you know, basic important reforms to benefit the lives of its citizens and, in turn, harms the people themselves.
Proud to oppose.