I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish the death penalty.
Three independent points: first is threat neutralization.
So, we think that one of the primary purposes of the criminal justice system is to take people that are a at a high risk of recidivating and take them out of the general population.
This is because our first priority should be to decrease harms that are inflicted upon innocent individuals.
We think that the death penalty is something that is almost exclusively given to people that are a at a higher risk of recidivating.
These are repeat offenders, these are people that committed particularly heinous crimes and showed no remorse.
Usually the standards for enacting the death penalty are something that would suggest very very high likelihood of recidivism.
We think then that, especially if this is a violent crime that we would put at like either murder or something comparable to murder, that this is something then that merits like actually ensuring that this person will never re-enter the general population.
Op argues that life sentences fulfill this purpose.
I think the problem with this line of argumentation is one, that people can break out of prison.
Like it's obviously not a common thing to happen, but it is still like a contingency that needs to be evaluated.
But secondly we think that there is a component of this too that like people that can be like released from prison.
Like as likely is it is that people can be put in prison wrongly, people can also be released from prison wrongly.
So we think that that threat neutralization, that is always going to be an important component of a functioning justice system.
Our second independent point is deterrence.
So we think that like having a death penalty certainly is just a better way to deter people from committing crimes that are likely to enact the death penalty.
Like even if you want to argue that this is marginal, it is just true that people are going to be less likely, especially in cases where the crime is pre-meditated, to commit a crime if they think there is a like even a small likelihood that they get executed for committing that crime.
Given that then, we think that this, again, links back to that basic purpose of the criminal justice system.
To protect innocents from harm.
That if people are less likely to commit the crime in the first place because they fear the punishment, then we think that that is a good thing in that people are less likely to suffer as a result of it.
Our third independent point though is that all like rights analysis and like like harms on innocents aside, we think this is just a more utilitarian use of the justice system.
This is for two reasons: first is that we think that this is just more cost effective.
Like, I don't know there's like a lot of stats floating around about like how much it costs to put someone on death row and that it's like super expensive.
Like is way more expensive though to keep someone in prison for their entire life.
Like I recognize that people spend a lot of time on death row before being executed, it is still cost comparatively more effective to actually implement the death penalty rather than just like keep them hanging around for their entire lives.
So I think from a perspective of taxpayer obligations this is definitely the more efficient system and like criminal justice spending will go up if you abolish the death penalty.
But secondly, we think that there is a utilitarian benefit from the prisoner's perspective.
What we mean by this is that there is like this like common thread or assumption throughout government's case that like the humane thing to do is to lock them away for their entire life in prison.
Like I want to establish here that the death penalty is not necessarily more of a rights infringement then forcibly detaining someone in a small cell for the rest of their life, easily like for the next like sixty fifty years of it.
Like the reality is that their counter factual is not humane in any way shape or form.
So I don't think then that from the sort of like cruel and unusual punishment perspective, they have a lot of ground to stand with.
I don't think that this is comparatively any less rights abusive and I don't think that this is a system that is going to be like, the system that they promote is going to be any better than the status quo.
Proud to oppose.