I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should substantially increase our investments in alternative energy.
So our first independent point is that these forms of energy are significantly more expensive than the types of fossil fuels we use in the status quo.
Recognize that energy is incredibly important and is even a right.
Your ability to keep the lights on, to keep the water flowing, to have heat that will let you survive the winter.
These really basic things that are constantly constantly facilitative to you know basic things like your right to life are reliant on an energy infrastructure that is both reliable and affordable.
The problem here is that, as government concedes, that alternative energy infrastructure is pretty well developed in the developed world in places like say europe.
The places where it's not very well developed that governments advocacy seems to be lying in is places like say the developing world, in large countries with very poor populations like say subsaharan africa or india or developing sections in south america.
And in these places they don't have the money to just like make a solar like make their entire energy grid run on like wind and solar.
These technologies per watt are significantly more expensive and we think that if you tell parts of the world that don't even have the money to create an infrastructure running on coal that they now have to switch over to technology that is like orders of magnitude more expensive, you're simply going to wind up with lots of the global poor simply having no access to energy infrastructure.
We think this is incredibly problematic for two reasons.
First, we think that if their terminal impact on side government is climate change is an existential threat, we think that also having no access to like running water or heat is also an existential threat.
But secondly this is a disparate impact.
We think that largely the world will be apathetic to these claims because this is something that the global poor have to tolerate and face the consequences of while be global rich get to feel like smug and self content because they did the right thing and they are using green energy.
We think that in the long run than it is less likely that this particular problem is going to be resolved in a meaningful way.
As such we think it is a massive harm then to inflict this kind of economic suffering on people that don't have the means to you know use the luxury of green energy.
Our second independent point is that green energy provides less jobs per watt essentially.
So things like coal plants, things like oil rigs or natural gas lines, they require lots of laborers in order to operate.
We think this is important because it ensures that an industry that is pretty cash flush is at least giving back in some way.
It's creating jobs, ensuring that you know the working class actually have some means of accessing the capital that's generated by this lucrative industry, and as such it puts something into the economy.
We think though that largely things like solar and wind are going to employed by a small run by a smaller number of higher skill laborers, people like say like civil engineers or electrical engineers.
This is a problem because it means that not only will there be less jobs now, but it means that the capital in these industries will be accruing to people who are already pretty well to do.
We're talking about moving a lot of capital from the working class up to a comparatively smaller slice of the upper-middle and upper classes.
This then is problematic insofar as it exacerbates existing inequality in the world.
Our third and final independent point is that government involvement in the energy industry is just generally problematic.
We think that when you have a subsidy system or something like it set up that encourages rent seeking behavior amongst firms.
No longer is the directive of say exxon mobil to you know do things that are profitable and get people to pay for their product rather it's to behave in the way that the government wants them to behave so they can continue getting the subsidies.
This is problematic behavior, not just because it creates an inefficient marketplace, but because it means that now companies work for the government, not the consumer.
We think then that in principle and in practice this makes for a worse marketplace that harms the consumers and every day everyday people.
Proud to oppose.