I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abandon television.
Our first independent point is choice, that is, that abandoning television essentially reduces the choice that individuals have.
So, I think there's a a a important misconception in the government case in that, you know, streaming is something that uniquely exists on their side of the house.
That's obviously not true.
The status quo is opp , you know, government is specifically proposing that we completely abandon television and completely switch over to streaming.
So it's important to note that in the status quo, streaming exists.
You can use netflix, you can use hulu, all that sort of stuff.
We think then that it's important to preserve television, because specifically there's just individuals that would prefer to consume media in this particular way.
I think there's legitimate reasons for doing so.
People enjoy the episodic nature and the weekly recurring nature of watching television.
They enjoy sort of the familial component to it.
There's certainly a cultural component to television, especially for people that, you know, grew up in an era where television was extremely dominant as a medium.
Given that, then, we think that it is always preferable to ensure that people have choice to the types of media that they prefer.
The reason, then, we think that people should have choice is sort of broadly because we think that, you know, individuals can make decisions for themselves the best, that rather than some sort of external actor dictating to them, " television is inferior, you plebes, now we're going to watch streaming, " we think that people can just make that decision themselves.
If both are options and people can do what pleases them and everyone can be a happy camper, we don't think there is a proactive need to, you know, abolish one just because even if a majority of people prefer the other.
Our second independent point is that there is harmful characteristics and practices associated with online streaming that we think are problematic if we were to expand the number of people consuming it.
So, one of these practices is binge-watching, that is, like the practice of saying, you know, " instead of watching one episode every week, I'm just gonna watch like five seasons right now. "
So usually this consumes like an entire day, where you're just kinda like lying in bed watching netflix consecutively, and we think that this is problematic.
One is the obvious health concern that's associated with it, you know, like staring at a screen for a prolonged amount of time can, you know, cause, you know, headaches and things like that.
But we also think that there's a sort of a broader harm on, you know, sort of that mentality that's established by this.
We think that when people, you know, do this sort of thing that , for one, it is obviously very like lazy thing to do, that you're sort of lounging about in bed all day, but we also think it generally encourages sort of like a culture of laziness, that this becomes like a a sort of glorify activity that people just sort of binge-watch netflix for a day, and then this becomes something that's a regular activity.
That, in the long term, is harmful because, you know, regularly watching netflix instead of, you know, engaging in things that require physical activity is obviously an issue.
But beyond that, we think that there's problematic behaviors in, you know, streaming television associated with the way that the industry approaches this.
So, we think that television is largely a a poor use of societal resources, that like billions if not trillions of dollars go into producing these programs that quite often are pretty bad and instead of, you know, going into more worthwhile endeavors.
We think that because streaming facilitates the increased consumption of this inherently wasteful industry then, we think that, you know, this is something that's problematic in and of itself, that any sort of tool that expands the proliferation of a problematic industry is itself problematic.
Proud to oppose.