I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should cease the subsidization of the cultivation of tobacco.
Three independent points: first that tobacco is unhealthy.
I don't think this is a controversial point.
Generally speaking the science has come to a relative consensus on the idea that tobacco is something that is bad for you.
It causes throat cancer.
It causes lung cancer.
It causes mouth cancer.
It causes a lot of different types of cancer.
It also causes like coughing and other things that are just generally bad for you.
Tobacco is something that's really really unhealthy.
And when we subsidize tobacco we increase the consumption of the item in two different ways.
First we make it cheaper.
That means that there's less of a barrier to consumption of tobacco.
Increased taxes on tobacco for example have given us the statistical record to demonstrate that when tobacco is more expensive less people consume it.
I think that aligns with the general economic principles in a way that's fairly logical.
But secondly government subsidization of the industry normalizes consumption of tobacco.
This is something that has to pass through the government and it has to get the stamp of appeal approval from governments.
That means that you have like people on the congress floor giving speeches justifying their subsidization of the tobacco industry calling it like american and like home grown and all these things.
Generally speaking that means that people then associate consumption of tobacco with those ideals and as a result consumption goes up.
We think this is bad for the country and something that we should cease to normalize.
Our second independent point is that subsidies just broadly speaking are a bad thing.
This is for two reasons the first is that the money specifically going to tobacco is fungible.
So even if you think that subsidies in general are a good idea, you can only spend money on so many things.
And I think it's just a lot more reasonable to subsidize production of something that's like say a key ingredient to you know life saving medicine no matter what your interpretation of subsidies are tobacco probably isn't the thing that we should be subsidizing.
But secondly subsidies create inefficient markets.
That is they prop up companies that normally would not have the capacity to prop themselves up in a free market.
What happens when you have a landscape that is dominated by hundreds of millions of dollars in yearly subsidies is something called rent seeking behavior.
The incentive of corporation becomes not to do things that would normally make their company succeed in a free market but rather to suit engage in activity that then gets the government to give them subsidies.
This is a problem because those two things don't always line up.
In fact sometimes companies will engage in business practices that they know are bad ideas because they know it will attract government money.
This creates a lot of dead weight in the market that then gets passed along to consumers hurting people in the process.
Our third independent point is that these subsidies the only real justification for them is based off of toxic nationalism.
Op is going to come up here and tell you oh but if you like invest a lot of money into these light into like the tobacco industry will make american tobacco competitive by making it comparatively cheaper.
Here's the problem with that argument.
Even if you buy all the stuff about like oh well this like trickles down to like american growers and like you get to keep all the money in american pockets I just think that's a bad thing.
Because generally speaking the the people in the world that like need the revenue from the tobacco industry aren't americans.
They're people in the developing world where for whom this is their only source of income.
Generally speaking I think global wealth redistribution makes sense because the people who are suffering the most need the money the most and should therefore receive the money.
So nationalist justifications for a bad economic policy shouldn't fly.
Proud to propose.