I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should cease subsidization of tobacco growing.
Two independent points.
First is exports.
So we think that generally speaking tobacco cultivation is concentrated in a small number of countries because there are very specific climate and soil conditions that are facilitative to growing tobacco.
Given that then, most tobacco sales are generated through exported tobacco.
You know a lot of countries because they can't grow it have to import it from the countries exporting it.
We think that governments have a positive obligation to their citizens above any other individuals and as such they have a direct need to ensure that any industry especially one as profitable as tobacco is actually housed within their own you know within their own country essentially.
That insures things like you know jobs accruing to their own citizens, the money flow from purchasing tobacco goes to firms within their own country, that sort of thing.
But sack so under this then we would say that necessarily tobacco industry subsidies make your country's tobacco manufacturing much more internationally competitive, that because you drive down the prices of tobacco grown in your country say the united states it becomes more valuable than tobacco grown in another country say I don't know some other country that grows tobacco.
Given that then because you have that positive obligation to accrue the benefits of of any industry to your country's citizens, we think that you have a positive obligation to subsidize that industry and ensure that the disproportionate slice of the pie is given to your people.
Our second independent point is that high tobacco prices on an internal basis hurt the poor.
So we think that something a lot of the tobacco subsidies in addition to the export benefits accrue to people in your country.
The tobacco becomes cheaper essentially and easier to buy because it costs less when you subsidize them.
So we think that this hurts poor people when prices go up because the demographic that smokes and consumes tobacco is disproportionately poor.
Specifically tobacco consumption correlates really strongly with a lack of education.
This links into what government tells you about its health harms but we think regardless of those health harms, people are going to continue smoking also regardless of the price.
This is because tobacco is of course addictive so people aren't just going to stop smoking when it becomes like ten dollars for a carton.
This is a problem then because rather than like a public education campaign or something designed to decrease tobacco use, this does it at the expense of the most vulnerable populations within the country.
We think that tobacco use when it goes when it fails to stagnate in the face of this and instead like poor people that are already spending a significant portion of their income on tobacco now have to spend an even more significant portion on it just results in more cyclical harms more cyclical poverty and more suffering incurred.
We think also that because this largely goes to government coffers anyway, that they a will be you know less even if this is recycled into social welfare programs they will be less efficient at actually using that money in a way that benefits people compared to how those people just would have used the money themselves but secondly we think it's problematic insofar as there's like an inefficiency and like taking someone's money from them and giving it back to them again.
So at that point that, this seems to be extremely harmful upon poor individuals and as such is not worth pursuing.
Proud to oppose.