I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should cease subsidization of the tobacco industry.
Two independent points, first, is that it helps domestic industry.
So as government notes, the government's primary obligation is protection of its citizens.
This is through the social contract that when we think about what the obligation of a government is, it is to you know help the people especially in a democratic government that put them in that office.
So tobacco farming is important to the economies of countries that subsidize tobaccos.
You know, there are obviously countries that don't have tobacco farming.
Those countries probably don't subsidize it.
So when we look at where these subsidies are happening, we see that the tobacco farming as an industry helps citizens.
It also helps tobacco executives who are also citizens of that country.
This is important then because subsidies increase the competitiveness of your domestic industry.
When you subsidize it producers can, you know, either just take a bigger pay cut in which case you're still helping your citizens or b, and much more commonly, they decrease their prices.
So american tobacco, for example, which is heavily subsidized is much more competitiveness on the competitive on the international market than a lot of other countries tobacco's because the subsidies allow them to lower their prices, you know, in so far as the subsidies decrease their bottom line.
Given that then, this is a boon to the american economy and to any other country that might engage in tobacco subsidies and as such, it's important then that this industry be allowed to thrive.
Our second independent point is more just sort of defending the nature of tobacco itself as a substance.
I think gov does a lot of sailing of this of this industry and of the substance and I do want to take the opportunity to explain why this is something we are comfortable with government involvement in.
The first thing I want to say under this is that the culpability argument is extremely problematic.
I think recognize that this is an industry that's going to happen no matter what.
You know, other countries want the opportunity to cash in on this extremely lucrative product so even if the individual country like say the united states, decides they're not going to participate in subsidization, other countries will take that opportunity to snatch up a bigger share of the market.
This is a product that is heavily demanded and it is going to be supplied no matter what.
I don't think gov particularly explains to you why culpability is an impact.
Recognize that if something is going to happen anyway, if suffering is going to be caused, I don't think it really matters who caused it.
I think what matters is that the suffering happened.
So who perpetrated this is probably not an important point.
Secondly, people consented to smoking.
Recognize that this is something that lots of people do voluntarily.
Nobody is compelling them to start smoking tobacco.
Given that, I don't think it's fair to cast this substance as something that is just inherently evil and it's like destroying our country.
Like even if you think that it is something that is bad for your health, that's probably objectively true.
People still have the right to consent into harm.
One, because we don't know whether or not they consider these harms to be worth the benefits.
You know if someone just really enjoys smoking maybe they're fine with shaving a couple of years off their lives.
I'm not in a position to make that decision for somebody else but secondly, even if it's objectively harmful we still let people consent into harm because people just have to have the capacity to make their own decisions.
Autonomy matters and I know government isn't talking about like repealing tobacco or getting rid of it but it's important that we recognize this because if we see tobacco as a substance that is totally fine for people to consume, then I don't think it's reasonable to just crack the whip and say the government can't get involved with the industry because of how harmful it is.
This is something that people want.
These are something that your citizens.
Given that, I don't think there's a lot of you know moral hazard involved in actually involving yourself with this industry.
Given that, proud to oppose.