I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should legalize doping in sports.
Our first independent points is point is the medical harms intrinsic to this policy.
So we think that on side government there's an incentive to abuse to an incredible extent.
This is somewhat always true, that you always want to sort of push your body beyond the medical limit of what's reasonable for a substance in order to ensure that you get the full sports benefits of it regardless of whatever long-term effects that might have on your health.
Anabolic steroids for example you know really aren't that harmful in small dosages, but obviously the competitive and financial incentives associated with performing well in sports encourage people to use way way more than is actually reasonable.
We think the problem then is that on their side of the house all these incentives are still in place but the broader acceptance of drug use, both in terms of the norm development that occurs within a legal structure, but also in terms of just the ease of access that occurs within a legal structure encourages more people to abuse these in ways that are medically harmful to their bodies.
The reality is that even with the robust regulatory structure that government touts, you're still going to have abuse because the same incentives that exist in the status quo and drive the black market will continue to exist on their side of the house.
What they're essentially doing on their side of the house then is just pushing the goalpost back more and basically allowing people to you know move past that goalpost when it's set at a further point.
Our second independent point is that the policy is fiscally regressive.
So we think that a lot of the inequity in sports leagues, that is you know sort of the good teams versus the bad teams, is rooted in finance.
Good teams can afford better coaches and better players by simply paying them more.
Likewise they can afford to build better facilities which means that not only do their players have more pride in the team but they also have a bigger fan base that then comes to more games and pays more money.
So we think that there's a huge you know structural basis for essentially inequity in teams being driven by how much money they have.
But this equity issue is possible to overcome by just simply like the raw talent of players.
So if someone for example makes a smart draft pick and gets someone early on and then signs them for a couple of years and uses that player to develop the team, it is possible for a team that is struggling to make a comeback.
We think that the problem with this is that when you introduce performance enhancing drugs into the equation, the best drugs are going to be the most you know effective essential, are going to be the most expensive because the fiscal structure of a performance enhancing drug marketplace is such that there will always be a top-shelf item that costs a lot of money.
And furthermore there are specific incentives for firms to create them in such a way that only the top teams can get that drug.
We think there will be lots of like exclusive contracts that sort of things to ensure that like the yankees can buy drugs that other teams don't get access to.
We think then that at this point because performance enhancing drugs will have such an incredible impact on how effective individual players are at performing well if basically more money leads to better performance enhancing drugs, the differences between historically poorer teams and historically richer teams will become absolutely impossible to overcome.
Our third and final independent point is just that sports in terms of like why we care about sports ought be natural from a principle perspective.
I think a lot of the reason that people are so impressed by sports and find them so fascinating is because you are watching these incredible feats of the human body, these incredible achievements.
If however you enter performance enhancing drugs into that mix, I think you necessarily violate the fundamental reason why people enjoy sports.
You know there's a reason why we don't just like watch like really well designed robots playing baseball because we specifically enjoy the aspect of a human being doing these things and this hard work that goes into developing your body to that extent.
I think if drugs become like the determining factor though in skill then that necessarily ruins to a large extent the appeal of sports in the first place.
Proud to oppose.