I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban partial-birth abortions.
Our first independent point is that the mother has a like an inherent right to bodily autonomy that outweighs the rights claims that are articulated by side government.
So side gov spends a lot of time talking about sort of like the pain impact on the fetus and what not.
I want to start this out with just sort of a brief overview of why we don't think the fetus has rights.
The first of these is that it's not actually scientifically clear that the fetus does feel pain.
Generally speaking these the nervous system isn't very well developed and isn't necessarily even very active until birth basically, and we think that at that point that there is a you know a significant reason to devalue the actual rights claims that gov affords to fetuses.
But let's even assume that they do do feel that pain.
I think you do you have to weigh this then against the harms that are inflicted upon the mother in these situations.
So first we think that there is a general right to bodily autonomy in that people should have the right to do as they please with their own bodies.
We think this is essentially the most fundamental right an individual has because if we want people to have the ability to choose to do as they please with their lives and do what makes them happiest, your body is the most important aspect to ensuring that you can do that.
If you don't have control over yourself that is the things that are most fundamental to you like not even your property, your actual physical like corporeal being then we don't think that you really have any ability to exercise your autonomy in any way.
So preserving that is of paramount importance.
But we furthermore think that particularly in the case of like partial-birth abortions and late-term abortions, these are generally not done unless there is a very very good reason to do so.
Most of the time people will have conducted an abortion earlier on and if you've gotten to this point and decide that now is a time at which you you know don't want to go through with it anymore, usually something happened to change your mind.
This can be you know mental health issues associated with the development of the child the skimpy you know physical like actual health risks associated with it and gov says that they're fine with these exceptions but I think this fundamentally violates the point of the motion because these are basically the only situations where people even request these partial-birth abortions and at this point then when you're looking at the most extreme instances of when it is justified for women to have an abortion because there is the most egregious and obvious harm being inflicted upon the woman's body, it is of incredible importance to ensuring that right is preserved.
I think even when weighed against whatever you know pain the fetus might feel while being aborted that is minimal when compared to a, the sustained like the sustained pains that the mother has felt but secondly the increased rights valuation that we afford to the mother.
At that point then it seems like the the rights analysis invariably favors the mother in these situations.
Our second independent point is more political.
So specifically we think that by banning this type of abortion that you give an inch to anti-abortion activists and as such this has political ramifications on abortions that are performed at earlier stages.
We think there's this bizarre prevailing logic that like if you ban partial birth abortions that signals that like oh well we're not getting behind the really egregious things and the viscerally obvious things, we're just saying that like these weak cases when abortion should be allowed make sense.
But the problem with the abortion debate is that it's pretty black or white, like either you think fetuses have rights or you don't, and at that point then that just determines like whether or not you think abortion should generally be legal or not.
So we think that at that point then creating these shades of gray just signals a principled inconsistency in the pro-choice movement.
At that point then we think that that creates a philosophical basis for anti-abortion activists to jump in and say you know look like we don't think that they're being principally consistent, we think that they just want to mollify us but like these easy instances and as such the whole thing is bunk.
And I think at that point a lot of people buy in and pro you know anti-abortion sentiments essentially increase.
Proud to oppose.