I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize doping in sport.
So the model is pretty intuitive here, we would allow for performance enhancing drugs.
We would presumably restrict this with reasonable regulations on like safety, side effects, that sort of thing.
So we're not going to allow people to utilize strains of anabolic steroids that'll like give them cancer.
I think we can just put like the standard regulations you would put on to like a pharmaceutical drug or something like that.
Under this, three independent points.
First, that it maximizes the entertainment value of sports, second, that the black market that exists in the status quo is harmful to athletes, and third, that athletes can meaningfully consent into this system and we respect their autonomy.
So on the first point, that it increases the entertainment value.
I think fundamentally the purpose of sport is to entertain people.
This is why people watch it, this is why it is a multi-billion dollar industry.
It's because you watch this thing and you enjoy watching this thing.
So when you have these performance enhancing drugs, people are capable of more complex feats.
It increases the entertainment value.
You really, really like watching people like dunk in basketball or hit home runs in baseball.
That happens more frequently when people are capable of more complex feats, when they are at higher physical prowess.
And you continually push the bar higher when you maximize that capacity to act in astounding ways.
I think fundamentally that's why people enjoy sports.
Because you watch these things happen that is beyond what is often imaginable as the limits of human action and of course with the drugs that is something that is going to happen frequently.
On the second point, that the black market is bad.
So we think of the status quo.
There's still a lot of use of performance enhancing drugs.
This really, we see it, has two harms.
One, it means there's inequity in the system.
That those who are willing to break the rules because they have either the financial resources to do so, or the connections and networks to sort of sweep everything under the rug, are the ones that are capable of doing it.
That leads to inherent unfairness in the system and we think that by legalizing this, it becomes an option for everybody.
But secondly, there's no supervision in the status quo.
And that means the system is rife for health risks.
When you don't have a market that really like allows you to buy these safely, like you don't know who you're buying them from these are drug dealers, they're pretty sketchy people, but also there's not a supervised situation in which you inject these things because generally people want to have plausible deniability.
You're engaging in what's pretty risky activity.
So we think that by creating a supervising structure and a regulatory system we can greatly improve the health of athletes, or at least like decrease the health risks to them.
On the third point then, consent.
So we think that physicians will inform these athletes of the risks that they're taking on by taking these drugs.
Like a, we would just require it by law, but b, there's also like a competitive incentive to do so.
So when we open up the system that allows them to internalize these risks in a meaningful way, because we can provide them with pamphlets and things like that and this will just become common knowledge in the way that you know the risks involved with other pharmaceutical drugs are generally common knowledge, we would say that people have the right to consent into that then.
That at a certain point, autonomy is something that we as a society respect.
It is a very fundamental right that people should be able to do what they choose, assuming there are no third party harms, and given that we think that this is true here.
That there are no third party harms.
That if you decide to take anabolic steroids, that's a risk you internalize on an individual level and we respect your right to make that decision.
Given that, we think the people have the ability to consent in because they understand the risks and they are making that decision for themselves.
Given that, I think it is reasonable to legalize these substances.
Proud to propose.