I'm proud to stand in I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion, that we should legalize doping in sports.
So, three independent points: first, that it create a competitive incentive to abuse drugs in a way that it harmful to both players and spectators, second, that it leads to unequal use, that creates inequity within sporting leagues, and thirdly, that it makes sports about scientific advancement, and not about the limits of the human body, which it seems is what gov's entire case is rested upon.
This like, artistic notion of what sports ought be.
So, first, getting into the competitive incentive to abuse.
I think it's important to note, that there are intrinsic harms to performance enhancing drugs, in the same way that like, even benign pharmaceuticals, like advil have like harmful side effects, if used improperly, first, in the of case a lot of drugs is addiction, right?
Like, this obviously isn't universally true, there are lots of substances that aren't particularly addictive, but I think when you're talking about a blanket legalization of performance enhancing drugs, it is inevitable that some component of that ban will apply to potentially addictive substances.
But, secondly is you know side effects, this is something that is intrinsic to literally any pharmaceutical drug, like whether it's as benign as advil, or is serious as something like steroids, or moving like way up into the scale of things, that probably wouldn't even be performance enhancing, like this is an inevitable reality, that if you use this improperly, if you use this too much, there will be side effects.
So, why is it then inevitable, that these side effects will be capitalized on, if you legalize their use within the league?
Well, first, leagues and fans are always going to push individual athletes to use them to a ridiculous extent, right?
Like to the extent that like steroids, for example, can help you with your performance, you would use this beyond a healthy extent to almost an inevitable reality right?
This is true with like basically every baseball player that has used steroid, there are harmful side effects ranging between that like like psychological and emotional harms, all the way to like testosterone output, all sorts of things that are hugely problematic.
But it also normalizes use among non athletes, people like kids, for example, are a lot more likely to be comfortable with things that are probably not good to consume, especially when you're not doing it through like a doctor, that like the league might be putting forward for you.
So, we think then that the normalization, the usage of these substances among the spectators of the sport is also an externality, that they have to deal with on side gov.
Second independent point is that it leads to unequal use within leagues.
So, these are going to be expensive, just like any other pharmaceutical drug.
A, because they have like inelastic demand within the league, because they are they will become extremely important to, whether or not your team is capable of performing at the level that other teams are, but secondly, just because they have high value, right?
Like it is something that makes you get pretty far ahead, so there's going to be a big price tag on it.
That's a problem, because it exacerbates an inequality, that already exists within leagues.
This has two harms this means that like certain teams will be able to afford and others won't, like this is inevitable of any expensive good.
So, that has two harms: first, as fans right?
Like when there is inequity within a league, that is just a bad thing, because it means that financial resources are dictating whether or not you are successful, not your individual capacity as a human being, and the amount of effort that you put in to whether or not you are good at your sport.
But secondly, blowouts just aren't fun to watch, right?
Like you don't want to watch the pirates versus the yankees, you want to watch like the red sox versus the yankees, or something like that, even matches are what keep sports fans entertained.
So, that has two harms: one it's just like bad when sports fans aren't entertained, because that's the whole point of the industry, but secondly, it's bad because it means you drive down the revenue, and harm the institution of sports at a very systemic level.
Third independent point, is that it just like make sports about, like, whether or not your scientific advancements have gotten got an x point, it's not about athleticism in the, right?
It doesn't become about whether or not, like, I as an individual have put so much effort into this thing, that I am now excelling it on my own merit.
Is about what the advances of the modern day are, how science has made it possible for me to buy this substance, that I then intake, and mix it into someone that is stronger.
We think that necessarily erodes then the entire point of sports, and what makes it something that we as a society value.
Proud to oppose.