I am proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban partial birth abortions.
In terms of the model we would say that there is a bright line you know you can debate back and forth about what that bright line is in terms of how late into the pregnancy you're willing to allow these but generally speaking we would say that late term abortions ones that require partial birth and like dismembering of the fetus or just something we would not allow the you know the procedure would be banned.
We would you know criminalize it from the doctor's perspective etcetera.
So two independent points.
The first is that under most constructs of debating whether or not fetuses have a right to life, whether or not they have personhood there is a higher likelihood that they do you have personhood the later you get into the term.
So one standard for example is whether or not the individual can feel pain or pleasure.
This is generally the standard used to find that animals have rights because if something is just alive and it is capable of saying x is bad y is good, we should you know try to minimize the bad stuff happening because suffering in any form is a problem.
So we would say then that pain sensors while generally not found like in very very young embryos like a couple weeks in, generally those pain sensors develop and they react to stimuli as time goes on.
So very late term abortions like seven months in or so, when it has to be partial birth are a lot more likely than to meet the standard for life, meet the standard for humanity in having rights insofar as they are capable of feeling pain and those sensors are more developed.
I don't think personhood really stems from much more than that.
That you know the reason we consider for intelligence for example is probably a bad standard to apply personhood to on the basis that you know we still consider people with developmental and intellectual disabilities to be people.
Given that, I think we want to you know sort of apply that level of personhood to an infant when they actually have the capacity to experience pain and pleasure and when they have preferences that are established.
So late term abortions then are particularly problematic because they are so late on and they are particularly likely you know to bite into those harms.
Our second independent point is the political implications of late term abortions.
So bill clinton is a good example of someone that essentially was able to make limited progress in access to abortion rights by signing a ban on late term abortions.
This is because it allows you to basically say you know I'm okay with this you know I'm okay with abortion broadly speaking.
I think that there are you know bodily autonomy rights in that the you know there are generally speaking rights constructs that necessitate the legalization of this procedure but I'm not you don't want not one of those crazy radicals.
Even if you think that the justification for late term abortions is valid, that these are something that should occur, it's always going to be seen is like the most radical end of people that are in favor of legalization of abortion procedures.
As a result of that then, we think that there is a distinct harm inflicted upon the movement when you allow for these types of procedures to occur because anti-abortion advocates can always cast you as the most visceral inhuman version that they would like to characterize you.
This is important for you know having these sort of public discussions about the politics of abortion.
When you allow the christian right to define your image that's a problem.
That means that you're unlikely to garner widespread support.
You're unlikely to make much more progress and on the margins.
We would prefer a world where late term abortions are illegal but everything else is like something that -een carried out verses a world where none of it is legal because you were too purist to give up on that little bit of ground.
Proud to propose.