I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should further exploit wind power.
Our first independent point is birds.
So we think that animal rights exist.
Most standards that of who deserves right that excludes animals are often arbitrary and internally contradictory.
So for example intelligence based standards that say you have to be as intelligent as a human are often unreasonable because there are lots of animals that are more intelligent than say small children and yet we still think that small children deserve rights.
So animals deserve rights and we think that birds are particularly harmed by wind power.
These large spinning windmills have like really sharp blades that often take up a lot of space in like mid-air and when birds, particularly migratory birds, fly along like through that air space they hit the blades and die.
And this kills a lot of birds on a yearly basis like like millions of birds.
So we think this is significantly problematic then because the right to life is extremely fundamental and if we're willing to afford rights to animals we have to accept that even if this drives down energy costs a bit, it's unlikely to outweigh just the the massive harms that are intrinsic to killing birds, our second independent point is that wind power provides less jobs than other more traditional forms of energy.
Even more moderate ones that are green like nuclear power provide more jobs.
Wind power provides an exceptionally low number of jobs because the power source itself more or less runs on automatic.
I mean you need engineers to ensure that the actual facility is like running right and all the technology's going correctly but for the most part you don't need that many like staffers, like you don't like a coal plant for example that really drives an industry from the resource extraction and the running of the plant like it's not like that.
Wind power really just doesn't have that many jobs associated with it and we think the energy infrastructure in particular because it's such a large employer it's really important to ensure that the types of energy we're using are large job providers, otherwise we have rising unemployment because of a lack of jobs that are actually you know capable of being filled and as a result we have an economy that works worse for people.
We think the unemployment is not just damaging to the people who are themselves unemployed but also to the broader economy because without people that have gainful employment and a steady income, people have less discretionary income and as such are less likely to spend money on things.
As a result this harms the efficacy of other industries because their consumer base shrinks and as a result the entire economy stagnates to a large extent.
Our third and final independent point is that wind power has limited use from a geographic perspective.
It has to be somewhere where there actually is a significant amount of wind and have to justify the construction of these fairly expensive apparatuses.
As a result then we think that this is largely technology that can you know work along coasts certainly and maybe some like highwind areas and desert perhaps, but otherwise there's not much applicability.
We think then research is zero sum, that even if a you know a particular type of technology is more widely usable, the research you know components and research costs are relatively flat.
We think something like solar-technology or you know nuclear technology, something that can be used in a wider variety of locations, is a more worthwhile investment and at the point where government coffers are only so large and we can only put so much money into researching new technology and new energy infrastructure, we think that wind power probably isn't the place to put that money.
Proud to oppose.