I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish IP rights.
Our first independent point is principled, that is that we think there is an actual property rights claim to intellectual property and that there is a principle justification for preserving that right.
So I think generally we respect property rights because we see property as an extension of the self that is autonomy, you know basically our most fundamental underlying right is predicated on the ability to do as we please with our lives.
But a lot of the things we want to do with our lives are predicated on stuff that is possessions and you know specific physical items that are important to carrying out our own will.
Money for example is necessary to gain things like healthcare and stuff like that.
We don't think that intellectual ideas should be considered any different.
One reason for this is that the general definition of property, that is something I put labor into, definitely still applies to things that are intellectually derived.
Just because they didn't you know put physical work like I didn't like physically toil under the hot sun creating my new idea for a computer chip doesn't mean there wasn't labor in it.
Usually this is someone's job, usually there's like a lot of thought and work and effort that goes into the creation of this good.
But we also think that it's property because it has the same effects on one's life that if we think that property rights are important because you are able to exercise your autonomy using property as a facilitative good, intellectual property does the same thing.
You can use it to gain capital.
You can use it to gain influence.
You can use it you know just as a physical thing that you know makes your life better because you're able to use that idea to create new things.
So all the standard definitions of property also apply to intellectual property, and at that point they should be legally recognized as comparable.
Our second independent point is that contrary to government's assertions, this actually decreases innovation in the free market.
The reason for this is that even though there are like patent trolls and people that just snatch up good ideas and then try to sue people for building on that idea, we think that innovation goes down because there's a necessity to because there's no incentive to innovate when you can't get the returns on your investment.
So the often cited example of this is something like pharmaceuticals because there's a lot of money that goes into development, but going off the example government uses, that is computer chips, there's a lot of money that goes into that too.
Even though it's not a physical product, there are still millions of dollars spent by computer companies to develop new ideas for software and hardware and we think at that point then that because there's so much money going into it firms have to be insured that they can actually make money based on the idea if they come up with it.
No one's going to bother coming up with new ideas if they're worried that some other firm is just going to snatch it up as soon as they announce it and then just like develop like a cheaper version like a knock-off or whatever and steal up their market share.
At that point that we think that preserving these property rights is intrinsic to ensuring that firms have an incentive in the long term to continue developing new products.
Our third and final independent point is that it kills start-ups both in the tech world and in just sort of like generally like things like the music industry, in the business world at large.
When property rights aren't protected usually the thing the firm that can bring a product to the market first is the bigger more powerful one.
This is because they have the capacity to do so, they have like the human capital, the physical infrastructure that sort of thing to just build a product, record a song, or whatever and just put it out on the market quicker.
And as such if your idea gets noticed and stolen because it's not protected by a legal structure, your small firm, your new artist, whatever gets crushed in the meantime and has no opportunity to break through because they're never going to introduce a product in a timely fashion that a bigger firm can't do quickly.
This part it problematic not just for the fairness issues behind it but also because it increases the monopolization of certain industries.
Going back to the computer industry, there's already pretty heavily heavy monopolization but we think if a new start-up comes up with a good idea for computer hardware it's always going to be snatched up by like intel or some other big firm and as such we think then that there's going to be less competition in the marketplace.
Proud to oppose.