I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize doping in sport.
Our first independent point is that these substances are almost inherently harmful to one's health and that by legalizing usage of them you just sort of increase the number of people that are using them.
On the note of specifically why these are harmful to one's health, these are for really two reasons, one is that these are often experimental substances.
The nature of using things like anabolic steroids and other performance enhancing drugs is that you want to have an edge above your competitors.
So there's a competitive incentive then to constantly be using new, relatively untested drugs in order to enhance one's personal performance.
We think then that encouraging the use of these experimental drugs with unclear records and unclear testing is problematic.
But secondly, we think that these are, you know, problematic substances on the basis of the fact that people have a competitive incentive to use them more than is recommended.
This is true with pretty much any medical substance is that there is a limit to which even if it is safe at low doses it becomes unsafe at higher doses.
But if the effects of this medicine can or the effects of these performance enhancing drugs continue escalating, the more you consume, people will have a a competitive incentive to abuse.
That in itself is a problem, then.
And we think that legalizing this normalizes usage in the sense that not only does it give a green light and basically tell people, this is something that's okay, but it obviously reduces the barrier to usage.
You know people will be much more willing to use it if they're not fearing consequences.
Our second independent point is that this will drive inequity in sports.
So I think a significant portion of why we dislike, you know, really unbalanced leagues is just the fact that you know when you're watching a sport you want to see relatively equal teams.
If something is like a knock out that's like fun if you're supporting the team that won in a landslide but for the most part that's not particularly entertaining.
The most entertaining feats of athleticism are like you know close calls, matches that are really down to the wire.
The so inequity in general is bad for sports, both from an entertainment perspective but also from a fairness perspective.
And performance enhancing drugs particularly drive that inequity because it means that a team's success isn't based on you know the the grit or the determination of one team but rather just the quality of the performance enhancing drugs one team can buy.
As I mentioned earlier there is a incentive to always be developing new drugs.
That's from a financial perspective on the development end.
That you always want to be, you know, making a better and better drug.
And if there's always something better than the wealthiest teams can always buy the best drugs and by extension then can continue to outperform their competitors in a way that is essentially impossible to really hold back.
This financial cycle then basically locks out teams that don't have the capital to buy these high quality drugs and makes it structurally impossible for them to succeed.
This then we think really demolishes the the fundamental point of having sports in the first place.
Our final argument is just sort of the point of sports in general.
We think that having these performance enhancing drugs violates the fundamental point of sports, that is that we enjoy seeing people engage in you know feats of athleticism that are natural at the root.
I don't think the argument is fair that we enjoy just like extreme feats of athleticism.
If we want to see you know wild things happen we could just like design robots to do crazy stuff.
I think there is specific value in seeing humans by virtue of their own grit and determination achieve these feats.
And if performance enhancing drugs are the factor that gets them to those feats we don't think that that's particularly satisfying or meets the point of sport in general.
Proud to oppose.