I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish intellectual property rights.
Two independent points, the first is that intellectual property rights stifle innovation.
The way in which this works is that if somebody comes up with an idea, something that can be either patented or copyrighted, that idea is then essentially off limits for some period of time to anyone else within that market.
This can be something as innocuous as a song or as, you know, really fundamental as , you know, an idea for a type of medicine or a idea for a way to develop a certain type of software.
What this means is that if you put an idea or just a category of inventions off limits to the market, development within that type of technology or that type of , you know, product or whatever the item is stops, with the exception of one firm working on it.
Generally, this isn't the way we want markets to work.
We want everyone to basically play off of this idea, something broad like a like a cell phone or even the ideas of apps or something like that, and develop it to its best version possible, so the consumers are receiving the best product possible.
When an idea is off limits though to large portions of the market, that means that the firms that usually drive innovation can't participate, and the one firm that has a monopoly on it usually doesn't have much of an incentive to push the idea further.
Furthermore, though, this opens up the door for patent trolls, that is, people who will essentially eat up ideas and patent them and then go after smaller firms that try to build on the idea with onerous amounts of lawsuits.
We think that when you open up this legal mechanism for stifling competition in the market, the standard issues associated with monopolies often then manifest.
We don't think that there's a need to protect these for cost recouping like you have with traditional physical patents.
This is often cited in the medical industry as a reason to protect patents, because the drug manufacturers have a lot of upfront costs that they need to make back and they can't afford people selling generic versions of their product , you know, eating up the sales.
But we don't think that this is an issue with ideas, generally because there's not a lot of costs associated with coming up with an idea.
Our second independent point is that there really isn't a strong principled claim to what we're looking at here.
So I think the first reason why this is true is that often ideas are derivative of other ideas.
If we're looking at the music industry, for example, often what the next big thing is is either just simply a rearticulation of something someone else did.
For example, elvis was considered groundbreaking for something that chuck berry had already been doing for years.
But even if it is truly new to the greatest extent we generally see, it's a slight variation on something that an earlier artist had done in a way that, sure, will move the industry forward but doesn't, by and large, constitute a huge amount of meaningfully new material and new innovations.
So we think that because these products are often derivative in nature, it's unreasonable to give an exclusive right to development on that idea to one individual.
But secondly, it's often arbitrary who's successful.
Multiple people come up with ideas similar to one another all the time.
And we think that often the determining factor in who gets to actually, you know, snatch up the copyright, and who gets to actually move forward with that idea is essentially rooted in how much money the individual has, how quick they can get to the patent office and afford the patent.
I think there's countless stories out there of inventors who didn't get credit for something that they actually came up with originally, because some richer, more powerful individual was able to snatch up the patent first.
We think that creating this legal structure, then, exacerbates existing inequalities in our society that favor the already powerful.
And thirdly is that often similarity is arbitrary.
Again, going back to music, we think that certain like beats and melodic patterns are often replicated throughout song after song after song.
So the thing that you are copyrighting, fundamentally, is often something that isn't even particularly unique.
And at that point, we don't think that there's much of a principle to claim to your right to have a monopoly over that idea.
Proud to propose.