I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should prevent congressional earmarks.
In terms of the model we're comfortable with the ban.
We would structure this as essentially you know affecting parliamentary rules so that individual pieces of legislation have a tight controls on how germane they have to be to an individual purpose.
So you know for passing a piece of legislation on health care we just have strict definitions on what the need of the bill can be and what it can affect so that there can't be like an earmark for a bridge in some congresspersons district.
On the independent points first we're going to say that this is a poor use of capital.
So it's structurally inefficient when we make spending based on individual projects looped into you know other pieces of legislation.
There are obviously just like better ways to go about this both from a legislative perspective but also from a monetary perspective because the structure of earmarks makes it such that you know, the budgeting process is contingent on a lot of pieces of legislation being passed that aren't really related to the budget.
This is especially true with capital projects.
So we think it makes for a much more concise and clean and you know reliable budgetary process when you know are are spending decisions are actually predicated upon pieces of legislation that are categorized in such a way that their basically not just like a jumbled mess of earmarks.
Our second independent point is that this allows in the status quo for really powerful legislatures legislators to get preferential treatment in basically fulfilling their wishes and then by extension states that have powerful legislators get extremely preferential treatment in terms of the benefits accrued to them.
So I think one particularly obvious example of this is in the house of representatives where the number of legislators who have is contingent on you know, the size of your state.
Larger states can obviously get a lot more earmarking sway because they just have more legislators.
Obviously these incentives exist on either side of the house.
You know there are still speakership, there are still individual legislators who will always be more powerful but we think that this basically takes a tool out of the tool box.
That earmarks our a way that very powerful and disproportionately powerful legislators can get a leg up over the smaller states in less powerful states and this and earmarks essentially enable them to enact that disproportionate power to a greater degree.
Our third independent point, and I think this really cuts to what that meat that this debate is because this is really the most important objection here, is transparency.
Fundamentally, when we look at the way that a representative democracy works, we want to understand what our representatives are doing because this determines whether or not you know we reelect them it.
It determines how we structure our government and the confidence that we have in that government.
And this of course requires us to you know, actually know, what's being passed at the federal level.
You know, what decisions were being made.
The problem though is that when that when a lot of these decisions and spending decisions are made through earmarks, there's a lack of transparency because it's buried deep in an unrelated bill.
This isn't something that really gets discussed in the media.
It's not something that gets discussed in the press releases about the bill and as such it kind of goes to the wayside.
That's a problem.
We don't want really consequential decisions or even minor decisions being made in a way that is essentially designed to obscure the fact that the decision was made.
Given that, we think it's always better for the sake of our democracy and for the sake of transparency when we require that these changes and these laws be passed in a way that is maximally transparent and is you know maximally representative of what we actually see our legislators doing.
Proud to propose.