I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should protect endangered species.
I think there are sort of three lenses that gov takes us through, so I'm going to beat back all of them.
The first is that this is beneficial for current humans, then second being that this is beneficial for future humans and the third being that this is beneficial for animals.
So beginning then with my first independent point, about whether or not this is beneficial for current humans, we think that it isn't because natural selection necessitates an ecosystem essentially it's an ecosystem that that is actually representative of what animals can and cannot survive in that ecosystem.
This applies to ecosystems affected by human behavior, that if humans have say created a concrete jungle that certain animals cannot survive in, we think it is problematic for humans to artificially prop up their ability to survive in that environment.
This is because it will then have an effect on other animals such as for example the prey of the animal being protected and as such can throw the entire ecosystem out of balance.
We think that generally ecosystems are pretty adaptive, that if you throw something into the mix it'll change the balance of the mix but broadly we think that that mix will find a balance.
Given that then further attempts to you know adjust for certain ingredients in the balance will likely just result in misguided attempts and you know failed experiments essentially.
We think then that the damage that will be done will essentially have greater harms for humans in terms of their ability to enjoy the environment and enjoy the benefits of having a diverse ecosystem.
Our second independent point relating to future humans is that we just don't think the future humans have rights.
So the reason for this is two fold.
The first is that we don't know what the preferences of future humans are.
While we're capable of understanding our preferences in the status quo and acting on those preferences, it's not as easy for us to say this is what you know humans in say twenty-fifty will actually want.
Given that then it seems inherently irrational to attempt to guess at what they want and please them at our own expenses, because if it were wrong, then we just incured a lot of suffering on ourselves for no clear gain.
I think it makes infinitely more sense then to simply just prioritize current gain at the expense of future gain and allow that to be their problem.
But I think the second issue with this is that future people don't have rights at all, that that is we don't have an obligation to protect them.
The reason for this is simply one, that these people don't exist yet and as such you know the potential human doesn't have proactive rights or any sort of proactive basis because they don't experience you know pain or pleasure.
But secondly we don't think we have an obligation to them on the basis that quite simply we are not it's not clear what act affect our actions will have on them.
I think I have an obligation to someone sitting next to me for example not to punch them because I know that punching them will cause them suffering, I know that that's going to have a direct effect that is measurable and clear.
Something like environmental damage though is less clear-cut and as such we don't think that there is a basis for actually figuring out even how we would protect the rights of those people.
Our final independent point pertains to animal rights which again we do not think exists.
The reason for this is that we think rights are derivative not only of human constructs but of the capacity to reason through individual situations.
Rights are derivative of much more than just like pain and suffering versus like happiness and pleasure.
We think that the derivative of the capacity to be self aware, understand one's own preferences in extreme detail, and understand the way that individual pieces in the world relate to one another.
We think that without that higher-order intelligence, there is no capacity for a rights claim and as such the fundamental claims made by side government should not apply and we should infinitely prioritize the will of human beings.
Proud to oppose.