I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should protect endangered species.
Three independent points.
First, animal rights.
The litmus test for when rights exist for an individual being should be pain and pleasure.
That is, can that individual thing experience pain and pleasure?
Obviously you can't ask it like hey does this hurt but there are external stimuli like say poking it with a sharp object and then the thing howls in pain that signal whether or not there are things that it likes to happen to it and things that it doesn't like to happen to it and through observing those external stimuli being applied to the individual being we can say things like this and things don't like this but more importantly, you can have an understanding of the fact that that thing has rights.
That writes in the most abstract sense are the capacity to like assign worth to an individual and say there are certain things intrinsic to that individual that we should protect.
The most fundamental of those things, we would say, is life.
That is that we should ensure that individuals with rights have the capacity to exist because obviously like living is to the ability to actually capitalize upon any type of right.
Insofar as animals have rights because they we have seen through obvious observations that they can experience pain and pleasure, we obviously need to protect their right to life and protecting endangered species is really important to this.
One just in general protecting animals obviously achieves this and by extension we should protect endangered species but endangered species in particular are important to protect because something is happening to them that makes them more prone than average to experiencing death.
Like if they are being hunted into extinction or something is happening to their environment, there is something that makes that animal disproportionately more likely to die and as such it warrants extra attention from humans to ensure that whatever that trend is that is causing that death, be reversed.
Our second independent point is biodiversity.
That even if you don't think that animals have rights, there are still just impacts on the general environment that extend to impacts on humans that are intrinsic to making sure that biodiversity exists.
Generally speaking, ecosystems are contingent upon a diversity of like flora and fauna that can ensure that the way in which that ecosystem has historically operated can continue to be the case.
So like a certain plant like is pollinated by an animal, for example, if bees go extinct, large amounts of plants go extinct, humans lose a lot of food supply.
This is just like one of literally billions of examples of ways in which it endangered species of animals interact with our environment in ways that are systemically important to the preservation of human life as we know it.
Given that, it's important for humans to ensure that the animals that are preserving that lifestyle stay alive in order to preserve their own interests.
But thirdly, our our third argument is that species just as an entity like as a construct, have some degree of fourth.
I think this is true for two reasons.
First is that research is a thing that matters to humans.
That you need to be able to research animals to understand the environments in which they rose from, things like history.
So if an animal species goes extinct you lose that capacity to extract whatever basic human understanding and like utilitarian impacts you can get out of the existence of the animal.
So that's worth preserving.
But secondly, group rights exist.
That is beyond the individual rights that like x bumble bee has, there are also writes intrinsic to bumble bees as a whole.
We would extend that to the right to the life of the group.
That the group as a collective has certain norms, preferences, and things that they want to happen and one of those things that they don't want to happen is extinction.
So we should prevent that from occurring insofar as the group has some sort of collective will.
Proud to propose.