I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should protect endangered species.
As gov states, there are two lens through which you can analyze this debate.
One that is anthropocentric, that is, centered primarily on humans and what the impacts are to us, and more or less ignoring, you know, any other species.
Or secondly, analyzing this through the perspective of animal rights, assuming that animals do have moral worth and whether or not, then, as a result of that, we should shape our actions based on it.
I think under either of these lenses, opp wins.
So I'm going to structure the speech as analyzing this from the two perspectives, starting with the anthropocentric.
Center.
So, first, I do want to just establish why it is important to analyze things from the perspective of prioritizing humans.
So recognize that rights stem from self-awareness, that the reason why I think you have, you know, the right to things like free speech and the right to, you know, pursue happiness or all these other things, it's specifically centered around self-consciousness, that you are understanding of the fact that you are a human, that you have rights, and that's important because we don't think it is reasonable to assign rights to entities that aren't capable of conceiving of the notion of a right.
That is, something that is of a particular moral status.
That's important because there is a reason why these rights constructs are uniquely human, that we don't hear about like rights constructs as they pertain to dolphins in dolphin society.
That's because those things don't exist.
So given that, we think rights in the traditional construct don't really apply to things that aren't human.
Why then is it important for humans to not preserve endangered species?
Well, the reasons that are outlined by side government, things like research capacity and all these other things, have one serious problem with them, that they, you know, cost money, and they cost investments and things like that.
I think, well, there are some marginal impacts that you can talk about, things like, you know, understanding a specific species or something like that, there are just much more worthwhile investments.
For one thing, you can artificially reproduce these species based on whether or not you need them.
Like this is something that we can do with historic DNA.
There's some talk about like potentially, you know, bringing back woolly mammoths.
This is debated, not from perspective of whether or not we can do it, but just whether or not we should do it.
And given that, I think it's just more efficient to like bring back species for research purposes as we decide we need them rather than just blanket protect every endangered species on the planet.
Like this just isn't a particularly efficient use of money.
But, next I want to analyze this from the perspective of animal rights.
So let's, you know, take the assumption that animal rights do exist.
Gov never actually explains why this is true but, giving them the benefit of the doubt, let's just say it is for a moment.
Even then, I think really important is natural selection.
This is something that occurs in nature based on what ought to survive based on external stimuli, like whether or not they are just, you know, capable of surviving in the environment they currently exist in.
Recognize that life among animals is zero-sum, that when you have a increased number of tigers out there, as government explains, then you have a decreased number of things the tigers like to eat.
That's important because a: from the perspective of animal rights being important as them being living entities and continuing to live, this is a zero-sum decision.
When you preserve one animal, you are doing it at the expense of another.
But secondly and much more importantly, interference with natural selection undermines the stability of an ecosystem.
There are generally very good reasons why certain animals die out.
Woolly mammoths died out because they were simply just too like furry.
Like they couldn't actually survive in hotter weather after the ice age, and so they died off as a result of that.
It's problematic then to interfere in that process because these happen for particular reasons.
And when you interfere with the ecosystem, you disrupt its stability.
That's a problem, and even if humans are the causal agent, not addressing the root causes of that endangerment and not addressing the reasons why the ecosystem has changed, just means that you destroy the capacity of the animals to survive.
That actually hurts humans too.
Proud to propose.