I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should criminalize blasphemy.
Our first independent point is that this is a violation of the church and state.
So what we mean by the separation of church and state is that the state should not endorse any particular religion, and this doesn't mean favoring religions either like any connection between religious institutions and the state should be frowned upon.
And the reason for this is two-fold.
First, religion is a private matter.
So this is something that individuals have like their own belief systems on that is often not something that has to really have a meaningful effect on other people's lives and as such people's own personal belief systems shouldn't affect the lives of others.
But secondly, we think that there's a need for this lack of involvement because religion is something that is particularly inflammatory.
We believe that any action the state takes in regards to religion, even if they do it to all religions, will likely be responded to with accusations of unfairness or accusations of blasphemy itself.
So we think that this inherently creates problems for the states and conflict of interest when this involvement occurs.
The problem then that is particular to criminalizing blasphemy is that the state has to do really two things.
First it has to interpret what is blasphemy.
This it in of itself is a problem because it requires a subjective reading of religious texts, that is what constitutes blasphemy.
For example in christianity is blasphemy simply you know saying I am an atheist?
Is that blasphemy?
Or is blasphemy something more you know inherently like inflammatory like you know outward acts of aggression or forms of hate speech?
We think that the state taking a stance on what even is blasphemy is problematic because blasphemy is something that's defined by religious doctrine, so the state inserting itself into this conversation creates inherent issues.
But secondly we think this is an issue because there will be unbalanced implementation of the rule.
We think contrary to gov's assertions about this protecting minority religions, states have an often repetitive habit of actually favoring majority view points you know for fairly obvious reasons like if you're a democratically elected government usually the individual people within that governing structure will not only represent the views of the people that make up the bigger components because they themselves are of the majority, but also they have more of an electoral incentive to please the majority.
This means that implementation of blasphemy laws will likely be uneven because there will be political incentives to favor majority religions such as say christianity in a lot of western states over minority religions thus exacerbating existing persecution of these minority groups.
Our second independent point is that this is a violation of free speech.
We think the free speech is important for two reasons.
First that it is a form of exercising autonomy.
We believe people should be able to do as they please when there isn't a significant third-party harm associated with doing as they please.
But secondly we think that free speech is necessary insofar as it proxies one's personal preferences.
If one's personal preferences is the denunciation of another religion then we think people should have the right to voice that opinion as private citizens.
This can be anything as wide ranging as like outright hate speech but even to more minor things like denunciating say scientology which like legitimately as an institution does some pretty heinous things.
We think then criticism of religion and institutions in general is an important right to preserve and criminalizing blasphemy then mitigates people's ability to levy meaningful and legitimate criticism.
Proud to oppose.