I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should protect the antarctic continent.
Three independent points.
First, animal rights.
So we think that when there is resource deprivation in the antarctic continent this is something that disproportionately harms animals, that if you were to drill it for oil or other natural resources or you were to start fishing there, you would hurt the local wildlife.
So with fishing I think this link is pretty clear, that if you kill lots of fish obviously the fish are harmed but when you drill for natural resources, I think alaska is a good example of this, the air pollution and land eroding harms things like polar bears or penguins or other like species that are native to the area.
So why do animal rights matter then?
We think that the standard for when whether or not something has rights that has is should have acttive protection against experiencing undue pain is when they are capable of experiencing pain and pleasure.
For animals this this standard obviously applies.
I think if you like punch an animal you can see that it reacts badly.
There are obvious stimuli you can provide to animals and which they will respond in a way that demonstrates that they are capable of experiencing pain and pleasure.
I think the reason why we use the standard is mostly a function of the fact that one any other standard is necessarily that we shouldn't be determining things based off like intelligence or something like that I think that would justify like discriminatelt against developmentally disabled humans but also I think the s-stan-standard is a function of the fact that there is just like no other objective way to determine whether or not something should experience pain or pleasure.
Pain is a bad thing that we should avoid causing suffering when we can and in the case of animals this is clearly something we are doing by protecting their capacity to live within their natural habitat.
Our second independent point is sea levels.
So I don't really have time to flesh this out in full way but I think generally speaking global warming is something that is happening.
You know this is something that like ninety seven percent of scientists agree on and I think I can just like leave it at that.
That this is something that is real.
So what does that mean?
We should protect the antarctic continent in the sense that we should combat global warming because melting of arctic and antarctic ice contributes to global see r-rising sea levels.
So this is important I think even if you take like the screw the animals we only care about humans perspective because this is something that directly affects humans.
Coastal flooding like displaces millions if not billions of humans from their homes.
It probably leads to significant deaths through the increase incidence of natural disasters.
This is something that definitely harms human life and we think that preventing rising sea levels by mitigating the amount of arctic and antarctic ice that is melting is something that we should prioritize.
Third is natural beauty.
So I think there is like an intrinsic aesthetic value to the antarctic continent that these sweeping of snow scapes and these landscapes that are incredibly appealing to the eye are something that is worth protecting.
Like in the same way that we care about national parks within our own countries this is something that is part of like what makes the earth an incredible place.
That there is this very this very beautiful aspect to the landscape and it's important right like even if this is a place where not a lot of people go I think this is just something that matters.
I think this is just a reasonable thing to protect insofar it is a part of our planet, it is something that is awe inspiring, and it's something worth protecting because I think the trade off is pretty minimal.
Oil is not a sustainable resource to drive our energy needs, fishing can be done elsewhere, also the fish probably have rights anyway.
Like generally speaking the tradeoff here is that we are devastating a thing that has intrinsic beauty and is awe inspiring in exchange for very small returns, and I think that's a good enough reason to vote proud to propose.