I am proud to oppose the motion that we should protect antarctica.
Our first independent point is the benefits provided by the resources that we're talking about here.
So a lot of what we're looking at is things like, not just wildlife resources, like you know the polar bears, the penguins, that sort of thing, but also the oil that's extensively discussed by side government.
We think that oil provides an obvious benefit in its ability to maintain our current energy infrastructure.
The rate of development of green technology in the status quo is slow enough that it is unlikely that we are going to be able to implement it in an affordable framework before fossil fuels run out.
I think while to an extent this could be partially solved by putting more pressure on green technology and you know providing more subsidies and that sort of thing to accelerate the rate of development, I don't think that's going to fully solve for the time gap we're looking at.
At that point then there's an active need to develop more sources for fossil fuels in the short term in order to ensure that the global poor are not disproportionately harmed by that spike in energy prices while green technology becomes more affordable.
I think particularly in expanding economies right now, like india, china, and brazil, there will be horribly extreme facts on the quality of life if energy costs go up so much and as such we think it's necessary to extract oil from antarctica if it's there in order to mitigate the effects that will be felt by the developing world.
But we also think other resources like say, animals are important to ensure as well.
While we understand of course the long term need for research, we don't think you can actualize upon that unless you actually allow people to take those animals.
I don't think on our side of the house we have to defend like some sort of ridiculous free for all where hunters are just like going after these animals with gusto left and right.
I think we can simply defend a world in which we don't you know, have this overarching structure that keeps us from ever touching this type of wildlife.
As such, I think the scientific benefits that are associated with antarctica are much greater when you ensure that there can be individual nations claiming this ownership.
This brings me into my second point though which is that collective ownership by an international organization, like the UN, ensures poor enforcement of anti-abuse laws.
This is true for two reasons: first, we think that nobody has a stake in preserving this wildlife and preserving this region when it's like ownership is sourced off to like some other group essentially.
That is to say that no one owning antarctica ensurers that nobody's actually going to crackdown on say private firms that want to go hunting there or want to extract oil and as such it is unlikely that the sort of endpoint goals that are espoused by side government are actually going to be acted upon.
I want to be clear, this is a specific objection to the model that government puts forward.
That is like making this an international wildlife refuge under the purview of the UN.
We don't think that without the ability to have a stake in the preservation of that any individual country is going to be willing to dedicate resources towards insuring its preservation because they won't have the individual incentive to put that money forward.
But secondly, we think there's going to be an enforcement problem because the central organization itself that will be given responsibility is going to be bad at doing such.
The UN historically has not had a good track record of enforcing any sort of international regulation.
UN peacekeepers, for example, in conflict zones which are meant to be one of the most overtly direct branches of the UN in terms of involvement in another country's affairs are historically and notoriously inept at their jobs because of the massive amounts of limitations that are put on what actions they can take.
We think likewise if some oil rig pulled up to the antarctic coast and started drilling, it's unlikely that UN enforcers would actually have the legal capacity to do much about it.
At that point then we think that the group that government is putting in charge of protecting antarctica will be unlikely to have any meaningful ability to do so and as such environmental degradation is an inevitability.
Proud to oppose.