I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should legalize holocaust denial.
Our first independent point is that essentially legalization or that is like lifting the ban would normalize this type of discourse.
A lot of what government tells you was rooted in the notion that you know some light as the best disinfectant, that if you allow people to have you know public discourse about this and debate this on a regular basis then people will understand that this is a ridiculous notion and that this has no merit and fact.
I think the fundamental misunderstanding though that comes here out of side government is the people who do that like people don't have like public debates and public discourse.
People form echo chambers, people largely associate with those who hold the same opinions as them.
This is after all the age of social media where we form our liberal and our conservative bubbles and we don't talk to the other people.
This is a problem then because I think that realistically lifting the ban doesn't do a lot to mitigate the you know the actual underground nature of this.
You know the alt-right for example is totally legal and still has a lots of discussion of holocaust denial without you know any seeming affect of the fact of all those people that are railing against them.
This is a problem then and we think that specifically then what lifting the ban does that is necessarily harmful is it normalizes the idea that this is something to acceptably discuss in public, that people can stand on a street corner and scream about this, that people can just like casually hold this position and is considered you know their right to free speech.
We think this is a problem then because it creates the notion that a, this is acceptable as a position to hold but b, it increases the spread of the actual narrative that because people can simply discuss this in public now more people will hold the position.
Our second independent point is emotional and psychological harm that is intrinsic to this type of discourse.
We think that particularly for jewish people this is something that is actually harmful to hear discussed, that specifically discourse regarding you know holocaust denial specifically insists not only the anti-semetic values that are often associated with it but also specifically that the suffering endured by often people that you personally know is illegitimate.
This is something that not only has incredible incredible impacts on the culture but also has incredible impacts on the psychological well-being of the individual subjected to this type of derisive behavior.
So I think it's important to recognize that you know from a medical perspective often the same neurons that are associated with physical pain often fire off when we experience emotional pain this I think creates an affirmative justification for governments to protect people psychological well-being and emotional well-being in instances where that is a reasonable expectation.
This of course is a reasonable implementation of that proactive right.
Our third and final independent point is that this sends a signal.
So we think one of the most important jobs of a government is essentially to signal values, that because the government is in an outside position to hold large amounts of influence over the public discourse and also over what is and isn't acceptable, it is important for governments to take actions that signal legitimacy and illegitimacy to particular viewpoints.
Holocaust denial has been has been established well enough by side government is illegitimate.
It is not rooted in fact, it is rooted in fiction and we think then that it is the government's obligation to take strong measures to actively oppose this type of discourse.
We think that a ban on that discourse is one of the strongest signals you can send and as such we think then the government is fulfilling its obligation to ensure that these false narratives and that these harmful narratives aren't proliferated.
Proud to oppose.