I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should make physical education mandatory in schools.
Our first independent point is that this is a violation of parental rights.
So we think that what differentiates physical education from more like academic education you know like math, social studies, that sort of stuff is that physical education is something that you can do at home basically.
We think that this is something that you know you don't have to learn in a classroom, it's obviously not reasonable to expect all parents to be able to adequately teach their kids math and history but it is totally reasonable to expect parents to be capable of you know having their kid run around in the yard for half an hour.
Even if the question is one of sports, we still think it's possible for a parent to like take their kid to little league practice or even have them play individual sports like in the backyard.
At that point then, we think that like if you can put this into the hands of individual parents you should, and the reason for that is that parental consent is you know key to ensuring the best interests of the child.
Generally we determine that the state you know shouldn't have this overarching control over everybody's lives, that people should be able to make their own decisions for their own lives on the basis that they and not the state understands what will make them happy.
The problem with this of course it for kids anyway is that they're not informed enough to make those decisions, they don't know enough about the world to do it on their own.
But I don't think we solve that by having the state make these decisions for them, rather we allow the parents who are still a comparatively better proxy than the state at determining the kids best interests to make those decisions.
So if we can put this power in the hands of parents and we can reasonably expect that they would be the best actor to make the best decision for the child, we should put that power in their hands.
Our second independent point is that physical education detracts from classroom time.
So we think that again getting back to this idea that this can be done at home there's a question of how you use your school time and I think generally speaking we should make it as efficient as possible.
There is a need not just for the state to educate children as well as possible for the benefits that that brings on the child but also the externalities it generates for society.
But we also think that there is a need for the state to ensure then that you essentially use that time as best as you can.
There's only so much you can teach a child in a finite time period and we think that if you're spending that time doing something that can be done just as easily at home, you know you the comparative is teaching them you know more in depth history or more math techniques, that sort of thing.
We think that physical education is distinct from a break in the middle of the day so we understand the need for something like recess but we don't think that something as long and time consuming as physical education is necessary at the point where it can be handled elsewhere.
Our third and final independent point is just the social impact of gym.
So we think that it's particularly problematic to put children in a position where they are more subject to sort of like bullying and social pressures.
Oftentimes academic scenarios are you know better supervised and have better protection against these type of social issues because a, teachers are better trained to you know deal with bullying in that sort of thing but b, there is more rigid structure in the classroom so it's you know difficult for a kid to get taunted in the moment because they'll you know get yelled at for speaking out in class or something.
But also there's like less social pressures associated with performing well in class.
We think if a kid performs poorly in gym class they often get mocked for it because there's a social expectation that people should be you know physically fit and good at sports and that sort of thing, but those same social pressures don't always apply to the classroom.
We think then that it's problematic that you would be forcing children to enter an environment where they are quite likely to be subject to that sort of that social taunting and that bullying and sort of thing.
And as such mandating it you know just forces kids essentially to go through that and we think it's perfectly legitimate to opt out of that sort of environment.
Proud to oppose.