I'm proud to stand a proposition of the motion that holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.
The way we would implement this is similar to the way it is already implemented in several countries like, say, germany, where this is something that constitutes a large fine or prison sentence if one is found to be engaging in public denial of the holocaust.
We're obviously not going to do any sort of like thought police thing, where we're like, " oh, but if you think about denying the holocaust, that's a problem ", or like if you privately write it in a journal or something.
We would say like only like public declarations of holocaust denial are something we would actually criminalize.
So, two independent points here.
The first is that there is tangible harm created by holocaust denial.
So, when one engages in holocaust denial, and says that this is something that never occurred, that, generally speaking, and this is the intent of doing so in a public forum, leads other people to believe the same thing.
So while it is all fair to say that someone has a right to privately think a falsehood, that they have the right to just think to themselves, " oh, well, yeah, like jews are inferior, " or whatever, we think that it's a problem when they spread that belief, because it results in incredible harm upon that oppressed class, that that oppressed class now has to deal with things as wide-ranging as employment and housing discrimination to actual tangible violence, like being punched in the streets simply because of your religious identity.
This is a fundamental violation, of course, of human rights.
We don't think that people should be discriminated against based on their religious affiliation.
And generally speaking, we would say that people that propagate that violence and enable the spread of these hateful rhetoric lines or that's a thing that we should be actively fighting against insofar as there is tangible harm created by the narrative.
That is, that when you say the holocaust did not happen, you propagate the myth that jewish people actually invented this thing in order to garner sympathy.
You propagate the rate at which tangible violence and tangible harms occur.
That, in in effect, like enables the government to take a meaningful stance here.
I think the second thing, though, that we can talk about as to why this is a legitimate action for governments to take is norm building.
So, when governments engage in this type of behavior, it signals to the general public that this thing is not actually a permissible way of thinking, that this is that this is hate speech, that this constitutes serious, serious problems.
This can also be referred to as virtue signaling, that when you actually criminalize this thing, you tell the public this isn't okay.
But conversely, when you don't criminalize the like type of activity and that type of speech, you signal to the public that this is a legitimate strain of thought, that this is something you can gauge engage in without recourse.
That's a problem.
I think a good parallel to this is like exclamations of like the like, " the south will rise again ", and other like confederate kind of like rallying cries in the american south, that because of unrestrained like dialogue surrounding these issues, this idea has been able to like sort of gel in the south and normalize, that this is actually something that is a legitimate standpoint.
This is like a state's rights thing, or this is like a heritage thing.
And as a result, hateful racist rhetoric has been able to blossom in these regions.
Given that, I think you can see the direct corollary that when you allow this speech to go unmitigated, it will blossom into something that the general populace regards as being acceptable.
That, in and of itself, is a strong enough reason to say that the government has a positive obligation to take a firm stand against this and say, " no, we are going to signal that this is unacceptable by criminalizing it. "
Proud to propose.