I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban blasphemy.
Three independent points, but first a brief model.
So we would ban it in the sense that we would institute large fines or, in extreme cases, possibly jail time for public declarations that are that run contrary like basically show contempt for a specific deity or just things that are intrinsic to the religion.
Generally speaking, we would say that this has to sort of cross the line as being like outward opposition and rejection of the individual components of the religion.
So we wouldn't say that being like, " I am not a christian, " in public constitutes blasphemies.
We would say that like saying like, " jesus is not christ, " would constitute blasphemy, that you have to like specifically reject a core tenant of the religion for it to constitute blasphemy.
Three independent points then.
The first is that this is deeply offensive to individuals.
So, for the same reason that I think a lot of the time we consider hate speech to be something that is reasonable to ban, we would say that blasphemy constitutes a fundamental affront to the individual.
And the reason for this is that religion is something that is deeply tied to that individual's identity, that religion insofar as it determines like really big questions of what is right and wrong in this world is something that is deeply, deeply important to the individual, arguably more important than literally anything else in their lives.
At this point then, we think that the affronts that are caused to the individual by hearing public declarations of opposition to things that are fundamental to their identity constitutes a more significant harm than the rights restriction on free speech generated by the policy.
We don't think it matters very much whether or not bill maher like gets whatever rise he gets out of getting up on the stage and like declaring like islam to be just like a incorrect faith and denouncing like all these like different aspects of the religion.
We do think, though, that the fundamental affront to the identity of the tons of people that listen to him do this are a fundamentally important harm that is generated by these actions.
And as such, we're comfortable instituting a ban.
Our second independent point is that this type of speech is incendiary.
So even if you don't buy into the individual harms created by the speech, we think that like the larger systemic confrontational nature of this discourse is something worth preventing.
Generally speaking, denouncing like specific symbols or aspects of the religion isn't a meaningful way to that to like persuade people to abandon an ideology, even if you do for whatever reason think that it's just like objectively incorrect.
I'll get more on the objectivity that doesn't exist really in a bit, but it's important to note that people obviously believe pretty deeply in this, whether or not it's correct.
At that point, I think all you do is like increase the confrontational nature of public discourse to an extent that makes for really hostile interactions that are worth avoiding.
I don't think much productive comes with these types of discussions and as a result, I think a ban is justified.
But the third thing that we have to consider is just sort of like the weighted probability of truth of these religions, like blasphemy under the constructs and rules of the religion is a really serious offense.
In most religions, it's like your like top three offenses you can commit basically.
And each of these religions has a non-zero chance of being true.
Like even the most scientific like discoveries that we've made, if you take them at face value, don't necessarily run counter to most religions.
Like certainly ideas like reincarnation are pretty compatible with what we know.
Also things like the big bang are pretty compatible with like some deity instigating the big bang.
Most religions don't really run counter to the things that we know in this world.
So I think it's worth instituting policies that ensure that people aren't just like all going to hell because they violate like the truth of a certain religion that might actually be valid.
Proud to propose.