I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban abandon the vow of celibacy.
Our first independent point is that there is a textual basis for this vow.
So I think that gov wants to make this a lot about the pragmatics is that at least that's what they articulate.
The problem is that with a motion like this I don't think you can just make it about the pragmatics, that something that is about the fundamental nature of a specific religion has to have some discussion of the actual belief set of the religion itself.
I think this is really important simply because that's all religions are.
Religion by its nature is something that is faith-based and based on tradition.
It's not like a rational calculus of the impacts that your religion will have on society.
At that point then I think as the church your primary concern should be maintaining the integrity of the religion that you observe.
So why then do we think that this is specifically important?
We think that there is a dedication component intrinsic to the vow of celibacy, that is that it is a symbolic move to say that you are basically putting a significant thing in your life that is your love life above god and that would be problematic.
So instead you take this vow of celibacy that says I'm not going to do that.
At that point then we think two things.
The first is that we believe that within the structure of the chruch that dedication is more important than what gov just sort of nebulously refers to his competency.
We think that it's hard to pin down what exactly makes a competent priest and at that point then we think that the actual dedication to the you know the religion, spending all of your time studying these texts, spending all of your time delivering these services.
That's significantly more important and secondly we think that there's an importance in the actual definition of what is religion.
Specifically within christianity there're lots of subdivisions.
You have your your catholics, then you have your protestants and then within protestantism there's like lutheranism you have seven day adventists, you have episcopalians like there's like a literally hundreds of sub-denominations.
The reason for these sub-denominations is disagreements in specific practices.
There are plenty of denominations that don't have a vow of celibacy so we think then that at the point with this motion is clearly just supposed to be applied to the denominations that do you have a vow of celibacy, that abandoning the vow of celibacy would make you a inherently different religion.
We think that if people want to subscribe to say catholicism which has a vow of celibacy then they can do that.
And if they don't like the vow of celibacy, then they can join one of the other hundreds of denominations that doesn't have a vow of celibacy.
Insofar as you have these decisions on which specific religious doctrine you're going to follow, I don't think it makes sense to just say one doctrine is inherently preferable to the other.
I think rather it makes sense to say some of the this will work for some people and this won't work for other people and at that point you should just let people make the decision for themselves based on their personal values.
Our third our second independent point is that this creates better community figures.
So we think that in a lot of communities especially rural communities priests are often central figures within their community.
They're supposed to be sort of like these beacons of goodness, people who can do no wrong.
That's why it's seen as so devastating when priests do something that violates the public trust.
We think that the vow of celibacy encourages priests to maintain that status.
A lot of things that are seen as scandals in these types of communities are often things relating to like marital infidelity or like even just like if one is single just kind of like sleeping around we think that that sort of thing can be mitigated then by a specific promise not to do it.
Gov argues that when people inevitably violate that promise that creates a bigger trust gap.
I think the problem is that people would be angry even if you did it without the promise that you didn't do it.
So I think it's just important to recognize that curating that vow of celibacy in some sense minimizes the number of people who engage in sexual behavior that the community would disapprove of.
Proud to oppose.