I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should privatize social security in the united states.
Three independent points but first a quick model.
So we'll allow essentially individuals to either do one of two things: either fully consent out of the social security system and just agree not to pay into it but in exchange not receive benefits, or secondarily have their account privately managed by a firm that would presumably be selected in much the same way that government contracts are generally awarded through, a bidding process that is then given to you know the lowest bidder.
So onto three independent points.
The first is that the private sector is more efficient.
This is because the private sector isn't addled by bureaucracy that holds back the quality decision making and new blood that allows the private sector to operate efficiently.
This is important.
Social security is often managed by people that have worked for the government for a long time.
Things like seniority determine decision making capacity and rises in power, rather than their actual qualities as a leader or their efficacy in you know achieving specific goals.
The private sector works fundamentally differently.
It rewards people with leadership roles when they do things that actually get good returns, when they actually make decisions that benefit the corporation.
And specifically we think we can apply this to social security, specifically the investments arm of social security, by rewarding people for making good investment decisions and good management decisions.
Currently the social security administration is addled by bureaucracy that holds it back from its full potential.
We think the private sector can meet that potential.
And this brings me into my second point, that the private sector would be more willing to take risks, so a lot of the funding for social security comes from investments that are made into it.
Obviously if this was just like a money pool that people like flatly put their money into the fund would actually depreciate because of inflation.
So right now the social security administration is only permitted to take very very safe bets that is blue chips things like that.
But the problem is that there is often a conflation between safe bets and risky bets as seeing that risky bats are you know risking a collapse essentially for the fund.
That's often not true because if you have a well diversified portfolio that contains some risky bets, then you can insure large growth within the portfolio sometimes and relatively stable growth held down by the section of your portfolio that's invested in blue chips and the like.
That in turn means that investments can grow faster under private management because there aren't these electoral and political incentives to only take what's perceived to be very safe you know decisions.
And as such when you have a faster growing portfolio you are able to pay more money out to the people who need it later in life.
I think insofar as we see the social security system as existing to benefit the elderly and others who like that people with disabilities that benefit from the money that's in this pool, we want the people to be as large as possible to maximize the benefit that can be given to them, especially if we can grow that pool without increasing taxation.
This last bit there about increasing taxation leads me into my third and final point, that allows opt outs in our system.
We think that fundamentally social security shouldn't be a mandatory system, especially because at least in principle the amount of money you get out of it is directly related to the amount of money that you put into it.
At that point then we think that a lot of people you know basically can manage their that money personally through their like own investment skills or whatever, and as such we think we should give them the option to do so.
That is we should allow people to make the active decisions about whether or not they want to invest in a particular fund with that money rather than simply putting it into social security where it will not grow very substantially.
Increasing that choice isn't just you know something that's tied to someone's individual self-interest, it's also tied to their property rights because it's their money.
We think that that's that choice then, that ability to opt out, is really important.
Proud to propose.