I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abandon the vow of celibacy.
Three independent points.
First is that it decreases instances of sexual abuse in the church.
So I think generally speaking, priests and other people in the clergy, like most human beings, have a natural desire for sexual interaction.
This is something that is biologically ingrained in us that by virtue of the drive to reproduce we have a desire to experience sexual stimulation.
The problem is that when you undergo a social stigma or requirement to pent up that sexuality, that doesn't just like erase the natural desire for sexual interaction.
What this generally results in them for these priests is immense is a incentive to prey on people who are defenseless, people who won't speak up.
Generally speaking this means children.
These are people who will not, when violated by priests, actually speak up to the community and say this person assaulted me and more importantly to the actual aggressors will not say this person violated a vow of celibacy.
The comparative here then is that if they were to engage in sexual interactions with an actual adult this is something that would be much more likely to come to light and they are unlikely to engage in it.
So people who are like like children people who are not capable of meaningfully consenting in people who are disproportionately likely to be victims and incapable of defending themselves in these situations are more likely then to be the victims when there is a vow of celibacy.
My second independent point is that the vow of celibacy in a vacuum is just unfair.
So we think that sexual expression is something that is natural and by extension is unfair to repress it.
Recognize that there isn't a real inherent religious violation by expressing one's sexuality that like there is this textual basis for the policy but that is mostly pulled out of thin air and like is self justifying in an attempt to make the policy makes more sense but I still think that it is just quite clear that someone can adhere to the tenets of our religion that one can you know treat others as they would treat themselves and so on if they are having sex.
Like I don't think this is something that is mutually exclusive with your capacity to be a religious individual.
Notably people who are not priests generally manage to balance that so I think it is important then to recognize that this is something that is just patently unfair to expect of priests.
Our third independent point is that you increase the number of priests.
So the vow of celibacy is something that is a hard sell.
It is difficult to convince people to give up their entire romantic and sexual life in exchange for being a priest.
Obviously for some people it's worth it, that's why we have any priests today, but it makes it a harder sell and it decreases the number of people interested in the priesthood.
That's a problem for the church, because you need it to survive as an institution.
If you don't have people that are interested in becoming priests, you don't continue being a church and as time goes on less people are going to be willing to make that trade off as religion becomes a less significant factor in our day-to-day lives.
But beyond this, we think that when you increase the transfer costs essentially of becoming a priest and you decrease its desirability, you increase the number of people that really shouldn't be becoming priests.
This circles back to the pedophilia argument, that people that should be raising red flags are more likely to slip through the cracks when the church is desperate to recruit more priests and desperate to recruit to meet its needs.
Given that we think of the vow of celibacy is actively harmful to the institution and to innocent people operating within that institution.
Proud to propose.