The definition of advantageous is a bit hazy.
It's not clear if it applies to corporations or to consumers.
Luckily the distinction is meaningless because it's advantageous to both.
I find that open source software is something that is uniquely beneficial to the entire industry, regardless of which side of the equation you're on.
This brings me into my two independent points: first, the the open source software is a beneficial trend for corporations, and secondly that it helps consumers.
On the note of corporations, it's important to note for two reasons: first, that it reduces labor cost.
Recognize that you're letting your consumer do a significant amount of the work for you.
For example, when chrome like has to engage in these like large research and development programs, it doesn't have to put as much money into it because consumers are doing a decent amount of work for them.
That means that that you have a less up front cost for the corporation itself, and you're able to either take that as profit or decrease the cost that you pass on the consumer.
Either way it's a win win for the corporation.
But secondly, you have the beneficial optics of transparency.
You're seen as someone that is transparent and open with their customers in a way that a lot of other firms in your industry aren't.
Organizations like microsoft, for example, which are notorious for keeping corporate secrets, are seen as the bad guys in this industry.
That's important for two reasons: one, it puts more people on your door at the beginning, it makes it more likely that people are going to be doing business with you if they see you with someone that is trustworthy, but secondarily it generates brand loyalty.
That means that you get long term stability for your corporation because that means that people are going to be coming back time and time again when they see was the good guy, when they don't have qualms about doing business with you.
My second independent point is that open open source software is beneficial to consumers.
Again, two reasons why this is true: first it decreases the cost that consumers have to bear for purchasing a product.
Recognize that safeguarding corporate secrets, like software patents for example, decreases access to that on an industry wide level.
That creates effective monopolies within the industry and that's a problem because see how this happens in the pharmaceutical industry, where one corporation gets their secrets on how to make x thing, and as a result prices can be whatever they want because they're the only people that have it.
Open source software revolutionizes this, however.
It means that you can especially access increase access to people who normally would not be able to afford the prices that are generated when one corporation or one actor has unique control over the item.
This is especially helpful for the third world, where generally these products aren't even marketed because of the perception that there isn't a market that can afford these items there, especially businesses, you know, word processing softwares and things like that are going to be particularly beneficial and increasing that access is going to translate into ground level impacts for people who normally would not have that access.
Secondly though, we would say that it creates a disconnect between the corporation it decreases the disconnect that exists in the status quo between the corporation and the consumer.
It means more direct input.
You are literally engaging with the software as a consumer any more direct way, and that means that you get rid of the system in the status quo, where corporations are often fumbling in the dark trying to figure out what consumers want and then market that item to them.
This reverses the equation.
It means that consumers have a direct channel by which to tell corporations: " this is the thing we want. "
By signaling with the tweaks that you put on the product that is released in the first place, you give the corporation a perception of what exactly it is you are looking for and create a more efficient marketplace that is capable of easily targeting what it is that consumers are looking for.
I'm not quite sure what advantageous is supposed to mean, but luckily this is a a trend within the software industry that is beneficial to all parties.
There isn't a way to twist this that sees open source software as something that is harmful, and as result I am proud to stand in proposition.