I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
A quick bit of modeling, generally I think the way that this would play out is we would say that states should just invest more into building these types of dams, that they should expand the percentage of their electricity infrastructure that is supplied by these hydroelectric dams and generally that would just translate as a larger investment into the technology.
So two independent points.
First is that hydroelectric dams, and renewable technology in general, provides cheap sustainable energy.
So what we mean by this is that oil and things like that, that are finite resources, are really expensive for two reasons.
One is that there is a constant extraction cost, that you have to like drill underneath the ground and you have to bring this thing up and then you have to transport it to where it's going.
But secondly, because they're finite, the resource eventually drains and as it gets less and less common around the world, the cost goes up.
Also as I guess a third thing, is that because it is finite it's just not a sustainable path to follow for the future, that generally speaking, you could look at these resources and say, yeah eventually that's going to run out and we need to plan for what's going to happen when it runs out.
So we provide cheap energy through hydroelectric dams because it's something that is a continuous resource coming through.
Even if the hydroelectric plant is really expensive to build, it's honestly no more expensive to build than say like a really big oil rig, but also the running costs of it are significantly lower.
You don't have to transport the energy in the same way that you have to physically tote around oil.
You don't have to really worry about like how this is going to affect alternative like like energy infrastructure in other places, because you are supplying your own power at this point, and that ensures cheap, affordable, sustainable power supply for your own people.
We think that's a really important benefit and we think that it's important to create energy infrastructure that is going to be capable of sustaining populations in the long term.
I think really the underscore of all of this then, is not just that it's cheap, but also that because the oil one day runs out, you need a mechanism by which to ensure that you'll actually have energy going forward.
So if right now hydroelectric dams are providing like fifteen percent of our energy, but oil is preventing providing like fifty percent of it, you need a strategy for covering that fifty percent in the long term.
Our second independent point is global warming.
So I think this is pretty straightforward.
While it's not really possible to flesh out all of the science in a four minute speech, generally speaking something that ninety seven percent of scientists agree exists, probably exists and we're willing to defend the notion that like, yeah this is a thing that is real and it's going to have serious problems associated with it.
Rising sea levels, changing weather patterns, like mass extinction of like species that cannot adapt to the changing climate.
We think there are really intrinsic harms that are quite clear and pronounced.
This is an existential threat to both humans and animals.
So how do hydroelectric dams help us fight this?
Well, they decrease the amount of emissions we produce.
Global warming is largely driven by increased global temperatures that are connected to greenhouse gases being spewed into the atmosphere, things like say carbon dioxide and methane, and when you have alternative energy sources, things like hydroelectric dams, you are not generating those sort of emissions when you are engaging in creating energy.
We think that's a good thing because it mitigates the speeding up of global warming, it mitigates the harms that are intrinsic to global warming.
Proud to propose.