I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban flag burning.
On the model, we will institute a fine for flag burning.
We're not gonna be ridiculous and like jail people for putting the flag on fire, but we will institute, you know, like a meager fine, maybe like a hundred dollars max.
Two independent points: first is that flag burning is disrespectful.
So, this is a pretty important symbol, not just to the nation but also to the people that live within this nation.
I think, you know, a lot of public polling can probably back me up on this.
This is just like a thing that people really, really care about.
There's a lot of songs about it too.
I think that's probably a good metric.
And it's important then to recognize that when a symbol is that important to such a large number of people, I think the government does have a positive obligation to protect that symbol.
That is, this is something people care deeply about in the way that they care about like actual policies or, you know, their personal like impact on to them personally.
And if this is something that people hold dear to them, and they do you think that this actually does have a significant amount of significance, then it is reasonable for the government to take active steps to protect it.
I think the reason why this is true is that, you know, the same reason why we consider other things to be worth protecting, that is, I really care about my physical health like, you know, like getting healthcare and things like that.
So that enables the government to take a positive step and a positive obligation to protect that thing.
In the same way if I am personally affected by flag burning, which a lot of people are, the government does have an obligation to ensure that that actual symbol is protected.
Our second independent point is that flag burning is extremely incendiary.
So, opp is going to get up here and talk to you about free speech and essentially claim that flag burning constitutes speech and therefore we have a positive obligation to protect it.
I think the problem, though, is that we don't have infinite free speech in this country.
Like the way that free speech is a right works is that there are limits on it, and the most, you know, commonly cited limit on it is the , you know, physical danger limit.
That is, shouting fire in a crowded theater, for example, is not, you know, allowed because that causes physical harm to other people and puts their lives in danger.
Likewise, I think that flag burning creates a significant amount of physical danger because of how incendiary it is.
That is, it is essentially comparable to, you know, starting a conflict that it is almost inevitable that someone will be so deeply offended by this action that they will want to engage in, you know, some sort of direct conflict with another person.
This has often started riots.
This has often started brawls.
I don't think that, you know, that's going to suddenly go away in the long term.
So I think at that point then, it is reasonable to restrict this form of speech insofar it is is essentially akin to shouting fire in a crowded theater.
It is something that, even if it itself is not an act of violence, is so incredibly likely to cause harm to other individuals through the direct action itself that it should be criminalized.
Generally speaking, the standard for free speech then probably shouldn't follow through.
, you know, opp will still tell you that there are individual benefits to, you know, free speech.
I don't think that these outweigh physical safety.
And the reason for that is that free speech is just a proxy for things that we want to happen to us, that the only reason I care about my ability to speak freely on any individual issue is one: because it's key to my autonomy in some regards, but secondly: because it's a proxy for ensuring that people understand my preferences and that therefore they can enact those preferences into law.
I think the problem with that, though, is that if people's physical safety are is endangered, that's obviously significantly worse.
You can't have your preferences, you know, enacted into law or for that matter even care that they're being enacted into law if, you know, your life is in danger, if you were dead, for example.
So, I think the physical safety then is always going to take precedent.
Proud to propose.