I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize polygamy.
Three independent points.
First is that legalization is key to autonomy for polygamous or polyandrous individuals.
So I think first that I want to establish here is that autonomy is something that's very important.
It's more or less our most fundamental right basically everything else that we consider to be a right is only a right because we consider it facilitative to our ability to, at a very basic level, decide what it is we want to do with our lives and what it is that we want to happen to us.
For example, the only reason we really care about our right to life is so that we can have a life wherein we make our decisions, wherein we you know sort of experience things as we want to experience them.
So this is really fundamental then.
And I think sexual self expression is specifically important to that right to autonomy because your sexual self expression is something that is extremely key to your individual identity.
A lot of people see this as something that is very, very fundamental to them.
That the right to exercise their their preferences when it comes to sexual relationships and romantic relationships is really, really, really important.
So given that I think then the autonomy to exercise whatever you find fundamental to your own identity is something that links very deeply into your general right to autonomy.
Specifically, with you know polygamy, polyandrous relationships, polyamorous relationships, anything that involves, you know, really just any sort of expression of your sexual identity that doesn't generate third party harms and is fully consensual, we say is something that should be allowed underneath this.
I think for a lot of people this is very, very important to them, this is their just genuine sexual identity in the way that you are I might be gay or straight and at that point I think then it is important to protect their right to engage in that sort of relationship.
Our second independent point though, just beyond the rights claim, is the actual harms that come with and are associated with restricting that identity.
So first I think there's a psychological component to this.
That it is simply, you know, frustrating and, in the long term it is absolutely maddening to be restricted from you know something that is so core to your identity.
But secondly I think there's an emotional component too.
That is when you are repeatedly told that your identity is illegitimate, that you know you are just part of like some crazy religious sect, that you are often conflated with someone who engages in abusive behavior, I think there are people that don't fit this mold, that don't fit the stereotype, and having that emotional toll of being told that your identity is illegitimate is something that has a very profound impact on the individual.
I think there are just very clear utilitarian benefits, therefore, that are associated with allowing these relationships to be officially recognized.
Our third independent point is that the counter factual of unofficial polygamous relationships is significantly worse.
So I do want to establish that obviously op is going to come up here and tell you about like, oh well these you know relationships have a tendency to be laden with abuse and all these other things, I think the problem with this argument is that the type of the type of you know religious components particularly that drive these abusive polygamous relationships are most likely going to continue to do so on either side of the house.
Like you hear constantly about like these underground religious cults that like engage in horrible abusive tactics like that's the status quo.
And I don't think it's going to expand much on their side of the house.
I think the reason for that is that in the status quo it is very tough to report abuse in these relationships and the reason is that you don't have the legal rights that are afforded to officially recognized couple.
When you afford that legal recognition and when you make give this sort of like legal protections that you give to like you know wives, for example, who are abused by their husbands like physically, then I think it becomes a lot easier to engage in that reporting.
You get the protections that are currently afforded to other couples and the abuse that is seen in the status quo in polygamous relationships most likely goes down significantly.
Proud to propose.