I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should disband asean.
Two independent points: first, that asean mitigates the global influence of its member states.
Asean is run by a consensus rulemaking process, that is, that there has to be a like a unanimous consensus amongst the member states for them to take any sort of decisive action.
This, in essence, is a problem, because there're very diverse viewpoints within asean.
For example, there're religious divisions, such as the heavily buddhist thailand versus the heavily muslim indonesia.
There are also political differences in terms of how liberal or conservative individual member states are, the philippines, for example, being more on the conservative end of things.
This, in turn, means that there's not a terrible amount of consistency in viewpoints amongst these nations and as such, because of the consensus rulemaking process, isn't a terrible amount of capacity to make definitive decisions on important issues.
This, in turn, hurts their global standing, the reason for this being that they: a, can't rapidly respond to developing situations whether they be military or economic, but b, they have very little capacity to have a forward-facing apparatus on the global stage because of their lack of capacity to make any sort of definitive decisions.
Gov is opp is going to argue to you that because that they are a block and they can make consensus decisions, they have more influence when they come to decisions because of just the the raw numbers game essentially, that they're more powerful as a group.
The problem is that if their status as a group neuters their ability to actually make decisions and even have any sort of forward-facing apparatus in the first place, the numbers don't matter, because you're not making any decisions, you're not putting any policies forward.
In fact, these nations would be much more capable of doing of having a forward-facing policy perspective if they acted as individuals and form coalitions on issue-specific bases.
That way, if there is one dissenter on a specific economic policy, for example, the other nations can just go forward and say to the international community, " this is what we want implemented, " instead of going through the bureaucracy and the the gatestopping intrinsic to asean.
Our second independent point is that asean increases polarization in eastern asia.
So, right now, the dominant forces in eastern asia are china and japan.
This is pretty clear looking at sort of like the subtle conflicts happening across the region, such as increased militarization and land grabbing, but also across the economic policies of the region.
These are the countries that have the most trade with the west and even have the most trade with their local partners in neighboring countries, such as south korea.
The problem then with asean is that they in their numbers essentially constitute a perceived threat to these traditional gatekeepers and these traditional strong powers.
That, in turn, leads to escalation that when china feels threatened, china, particularly, but also to a lesser extent, japan, they're more likely to increase their military, to double down on aggressive trade deals and even trade restrictions with neighboring countries.
And that, in turn, actually hurts asean.
It means that they also have to militarize.
It means that they also have to double down on trade deals.
It means that they also risk a trade war with a country like china or japan.
And the problem is that even in its great numbers, asean is still significantly weaker than these larger countries.
If asean has, say, you know, five hundred million people across its member states, you're talking about china, with a billion people across its one state.
So that outsize influence is never going to match up to whatever china has, even in summation.
So you're essentially starting a conflict that is unwinnable.
Proud to propose.