I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish the vow of celibacy in the roman catholic church.
Three independent points.
First is that there is a textual basis for the vow's existence and that that vow that textual basis is intrinsic to the faith.
So priesthood requires a full dedication to god.
What this means is that the priest who is devouting or is devoting their entire life to like the study of religion to the practice of religion to the proselytization of religion cannot be distracted by like the worldly flesh cannot be distracted by things like relationships not only are these very time consuming but also and this is like all backed up by like catholic text is that you'd like by involving yourself in this relationship you put something above your faith that you are willing to invest so much of your life and so much of your caring into another mortal that it necessarily deprioritizes your willingness to engage wholeheartedly in the catholic faith.
This is a problem because it means that allowing priests to engage in these types of relationships to distract them from their work violates the fundamental principles of the catholic faith.
This in essence is heresy.
This in essence means you are backing off on like the entire basis of the religion.
This brings me into my second point that popularity of your religion should never really be a consideration because the beliefs that you hold as a member of that religion are incredibly inherent but are also treated as objective fact.
That it is something that you would adhere to extremely closely and you shouldn't budge on this.
Recognize that like I don't think we should ever say like I don't know as a mormon like just all like do catholic things because catholicism's more popular like generally speaking we recognize that there are lots of different religions in the world some of them are more popular than others some of them are a lot harder sells than others because some of them are much more conservative and require a lot more time to be sunk into them require a much higher level of devoutness that doesn't mean that we should just abandon the principles of these religions the things that make them fundamentally what they are this is a defining feature of catholicism is the vow of celibacy.
And I think walking away from that is to say the religion itself is inherently inferior and I don't think that's a reasonable claim.
I think that instead we should just look at this as this is what this religion does and if you don't like it there are other options.
Our third independent point and this really cuts to the heart of sort of like the utilitarian impacts and like things that are external to the religion that god brings forward is that secrecy and protective networks are what causes abuse within the catholic church.
And this is only going to get worse under government's policy.
So specifically what gov tells you is that like because the vow of celibacy requires you to like sort of stifle your sexual urges that this is a leading cause in priests that like prey upon young children within the catholic church.
I think first off on face value this is incorrect the reason is not like pent up sexual aggression.
I don't think we see just like people who were virgins engaging in like huge amounts of child abuse.
I think the reason for this is that there are just like in a large pool of people going to be inherently bad actors and the reason why the number of people that get away with it in the catholic church is much higher is because there's a culture of secrecy and inclusiveness that crowds out anyone who is willing to speak out against central powers within the church.
The problem is that allowing people to form families doesn't do much to mitigate this and think I in fact I think that with a larger support network and more people that are capable of stifling these rumors and providing plausible like sob stories to sort of like stand by their men you are going to see like more harms and like more widespread abuse within the church.
Proud to oppose.