I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban flag-burning.
Two independent points, the first of which is that you know preserving the right to flag-burning is key to maintaining free speech.
We think that this is important for really two reasons.
The first is that free speech it in of itself is an important virtue to protect and flag-burning is a form of speech.
We think that free speech is important to preserve simply because one, it is you know key to autonomy itself so if we believe that people are free to do with their bodies and their voices as they wish arm on the basis that people are best at making decisions for themselves rather than having it dictated from some outside perspective, then we think that it is important to allow people to say as they please because that is an extension of their ability to act in accordance with their own preferences.
But secondly we think that speech is important because it insures that people have the ability to signal their personal beliefs and needs to governing structures.
It's difficult for democratic bodies to respond to the needs and desires of citizens if they don't understand what it is that citizens want.
We think that flag-burning is an important component of speech not just because it communicates a message I mean that in and of itself meets the standard of free speech for like just being able to do what you want with your voice, it communicates a message often of opposition to the state but can be interpreted in many ways and we think specifically with the signaling aspect of free speech flag-burning is intrinsically important because in addition to just signaling like a like an up-down on a particular issue it signals intensity.
The difference between burning a flag versus just being like I don't support the vietnam war or whatever is specifically the intensity with which you are saying it.
Like you were saying I dislike this thing that the government is doing so much that I am going to take the symbol of that government and burn it with fire.
Like this is the intensity of the speech and we think that's almost as important as the base line up-down vote on a like a specific action because it's important for governments to understand not just how many people like it's not like a percentage point like the government's like oh you know like forty percent of people approve in sixty disapprove so we're going to take it down.
Like they also really really care about the intensity because of say sixty percent of people approve of an action but are like kind of lukewarm on it and then forty percent of people are like this is killing me stop doing this we really really care about it.
This in turn that up means that the government has an obligation to you know defend that minority because the disparate impact.
This brings me to the second point then which I think gets at specifically the meat of gov's argumentation on popular will.
We're not actually sure that the majority of americans even support bans on flag-burning but regardless we think it's important to protect minority rights.
That is if there are disparate harms you know if for example a minority of the population engages in flag burning but it's super important to their identity and doesn't really generate third-party harms, then we should preserve their right to do so.
We don't want tyranny of the majority.
We don't want a system where like sixty percent of people can just step on the rights of forty percent of people and as such we don't want a system that ensures essentially continued suffering at the hands of the majority.
Our second point briefly is just about property rights.
So we think the property rights are important because property is an extension of one's ability to act with autonomy.
That is to say that often your ability to you know do as you please with your life is contingent on your ability to do things with stuff.
So for example you need money to get access to healthcare which itself is a right so we think that property is important to preserve.
Flags of course are property.
Absent the symbology, they're just like pieces of fabric and people own those pieces of fabric.
You buy a flag at the store whatever.
We think once you buy that property just like principally speaking that thing belongs to you and you can do whatever you want with it.
Like if I want to burn my flag screw it, like I paid for the flag.
Proud to oppose.