I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should privatize social security.
Our first independent point is that gov's model necessitates individuals to take risk with their retirement funds and we fundamentally are opposed to that notion.
So looking at specifically what government tells you to do, it's that individual people make investment decisions based on just basically how much risk they want to internalize.
I think this is necessarily a problem though because people can just do this anyway with their own money.
What makes social security unique is that it is a fall back that no matter what an individual knows they're going to get this money back.
But the problem is that even if people want to consent out of this, you can no longer even consent into the system under gov's model, because the way in which social security would now work under that proposition is that you would have a system where an individuals make these proactive decisions to invest in their funds and it doesn't leak over into other people's funds, that is there's no broad safety net.
Everyone's out on their own line.
So if I make my decisions on how my fund is going to be invested, I make really smart decisions, but there's intrinsic risk to that decision making.
I am no longer allowed to consent into a system that just a broad safety net where the general fund run by the united states government would subsidize my own interests.
At that point then, we think that this is fundamentally problematic because social security is important to ensuring that individuals have some level of income, some way to pay for things later in life.
That in turn is particularly important because we believe it's incredibly necessary for people to have access to their you know basic rights even after their no longer capable of working to generate their own income.
Our second independent point is that if people are expected to make their own decisions based on these investments, there's unnecessary information gap that exists.
Specifically we are contending that that information gap is based in the fact that people just really don't understand the intricacies of investing to a great extent, that I as an individual can't be expected to pick and choose my investments because I'm not necessarily someone who knows the stock market exceptionally well.
This is why we need social security and we can't just let everyone do this because investing in the stock market is complex, requires incredible amounts of knowledge, and isn't a reasonable expectation for the lay person.
Our third and final independent point is that the system needs subsidization.
Social security at the end of the day is a redistributive policy.
Usually people who were exceptionally wealthy throughout their lives don't need social security because it's not something that you know is actually necessary for them.
They had enough money that they were probably able to save a decent amount of it away and now they could retire into you know a relatively comfortable life.
It's the poorer people in our society that actually need social security because they didn't have the you know discretionary income to just save up a bunch of money into their retirement fund earlier in their lives.
So at that point then, we think that having individualized funds is inherently problematic because it means that the wealthier people can't subsidize the poorer people.
There's no way for that cushion to operate and as such this system disproportionately benefits the wealthy.
We need systems that redistribute economic wealth insofar as inequity is cyclical.
When people are born poor they often stay poor because of things like access to education, because of access to employment, knowledge, networking, that sort of thing.
So given that, because all of these inequities are reflected as life progresses, we need redistributive economics to solve for that injustice.
We think that social security is an important way of doing this and privatizing the system violates that basic right.
Proud to oppose.