I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should ban flag burning.
Two independent points.
First is free speech.
So there's a lot to say under this but first I want to be just sort of begin this by explaining why free speech is a thing that sort of in a vacuum is important.
And that's that free speech is key to autonomy.
This is true for two reasons.
First is that autonomy that is just sort of generally the notion that people should be able to do what they want when it doesn't affect others speech is a sort of like form of that autonomy.
That it is a motion in and of itself it is a thing that you do you and that generally speaking that is something that we want to ensure that people have the capacity to do as long as it doesn't run counter to others people capacity to exercise their autonomy.
But secondly that we met we care about speech because it's a means of expressing one's preferences.
This is especially important under you know those forms of government in which there are authorities over to sort of like common people.
It's important to note that speech is how you ensure that the government is aware of what your preferences are so that the government can then act upon those preferences.
Restricting speech is a huge issue because it means that powerful actors don't have a way of ensuring that they prevent sort of like the lower classes from any form of suffering.
So even if it's not a democracy it's still important to ensure that you have that freedom of speech so that you can actually convey what your preferences are.
So the reason I think this is also a thing that's important to establish is that there isn't any such thing as bad speech and this runs counter to a lot of what government tells you.
The notion that there is some sort of like worse form of speech that there are like bad means of conveying this or that there are bad things that are say being said is rooted in the notion that there is some sort of objective truth.
We generally should be taking with freedom of speech a long view in terms of the fact that like we should be a lot more tolerant of speech than of most things.
This isn't just because speech in and of itself is very difficult to find some sort of like tangible harm that's created as a result of it it's also because we don't actually know there isn't like no such thing as objectivity right like there isn't like any way for me sitting here as an individual to be like okay there is no way that x viewpoint is just like inherently automatically with one hundred percent certainly incorrect.
This is largely due to the fact that our world view is formed through the lens of our past experiences so I hold the opinions I do because I was raised in a certain way I grew up in a certain society but if I say like grew up in a society that just really really normalize the notion that like murder is a good thing that wouldn't make murder a good thing that just meant I grew up in that society.
And likewise our society has a lot of like really rigid and even widely held norms.
But the fact that it's a norm doesn't make it objectively true.
So generally speaking we should take a very tolerant view with allowing free speech.
Given that I want to establish that flag burning is free speech.
So it's a means of conveying a message and that's important.
People can you know convey sort of messages that they are displeased with a particular country that they are even protesting the notion of nationalism itself for the flag.
There were a lot of things you can convey through this action.
And we shouldn't favor one form of messaging over another partially because of the objectivity stuff.
But also because we want to allow that autonomy to individuals we want to let them do what they can when there isn't like some sort of like direct harm created by the action itself.
My second independent point briefly is backlash even if you just don't think that like any of this free speech stuff matters a lot of people certainly seem to think it does and they'll probably be upset if you would axe the policy.
Proud to propose