I'm proud to stand in proposition today at the motion that private universities do more good than harm.
I have three independent points: first that they increase choice, secondly that they decrease the politicization of the education process, and thirdly that they increase social utility.
On the first point, that they increase choice for students, there three sub-points: first, specialization.
Recognize that a proliferation in the number of universities means that universities can take can take specialized approaches to education.
This is both in terms of the things that they teach, such as trade schools or acting schools or however specific you want to get schools, but also specialization in terms of their teaching methods.
Things like montessori schools or other forms of education that might be particularly beneficial for people with individual learning styles.
Second sub-point is competition.
That when you increase the number of schools and you allow a private sector to blossom, you create the same incentives that exist in a free market.
That is, you increase competition which drives up incentives to perform better than competitors.
Schools necessarily compete with one another for a student base, for things like funding or prestige, and as a result, when you increase the number of schools you increase the number of competitors in that marketplace and incentivize those actors to perform better.
Thirdly, is that you decrease the the necessity of public schools pandering to the lowest common denominator.
Recognize that in a lot of systems that have a small number of schools, it's hard to build a top tier of schools that will create people like the leaders of tomorrow, or the best learners, the people that are most likely to lead our society.
When you create a larger number of schools though, you allow an elite tier to form.
One that doesn't have to pander to, say, the eightieth percentile or whatever.
It allows you to actually access those people who are at the absolute top of the game, and you can educate them without having to worry about dealing with the people that might not be on their skill level.
My second independent point is you decrease politicization within the system.
Recognize that rhetoric and sphere regarding schools is very heavy on trades and tangible things like that, that sound good in a campaign speech but don't make for a very diverse economy or diverse society.
Things like humanities matter not just because there are humanity based things like economics or politics or yes even english, that actually affect our society and our economy, but because of the social level, these things matter too.
We think it's important to separate the education system from the political system, that would fund it exclusively under the public sector and that's something that we uniquely access when we have access to private education.
Third is utility.
Recognize that public schools get their funding from the government.
That's necessarily a dis-utile way of using public funds.
The way we access funding for private schools on our side of the house is that we get funding either from rich people who are donating and have lots of discretionary income, and secondly, investments.
That is, like the school invests in individual firms that are performing well on the market and fund their educational system through the money that they get off of those stock options.
The alternative is public money though.
That's public money they could go to elementary schools or welfare programs or whatever you deem to be a good use of public funding.
In a world where we decrease the burden on the public sector and allow that money to go elsewhere, you're able to create a better society, regardless of what the initial source of the money was, regardless of how beneficial you think it is.
Given that, we think is always going to be a preferable system in which you can decrease the amount of pressure that exists on the public sector.
For these reasons I'm proud to stand in proposition, because I believe that a world with private schools is significantly more efficient more effective and better for students and society at large.
Thank you.