From what it looks like to me it appears that side government has missed the fact that this debate is comparative.
You cannot win here by simply pointing out bad things that come from patriotism, without comparing them to the good things that come with it, because the entire purpose here is to understand what is there more of, but if like we're not getting even an attempt of creating a metric for comparison from the previous speaker.
On top of that, it seems like the previous speaker confuses patriotism with nationalism.
The points that were brought up are, you know, the concept of ingroup supremacy and the silencing of criticism, these are examples of full-on nationalism, which is patriotism in its most extreme form.
But we don't think and we didn't hear any argument that explains why patriotism must always necessarily lead to nationalism.
Patriotism simply means, and these are not my own words but , you know, dictionary definition, love and loyalty to one's country.
We think that there are a lot of examples for countries that are very peaceful, very tolerant to the other, very open to ideas of free trade and immigration, and without a great big army, that are also definitely defined with a very high level of patriotism.
Take for instance, canada or switzerland or denmark or australia, we think that these are examples are already sufficient enough to bring down the entire case made by side government.
So what's left for us to do now is to bring our comparative analysis of why patriotism leads to more good than bad.
So we think there's something very natural about patriotism, meaning loving and prioritizing your own country.
We think that it's just like people tend to naturally love and prioritize their own family and its needs above the needs of other families.
By doing so, this doesn't mean that I hate whoever isn't from my family, or that I think that my family is superior to other families, or that my child matters more than others on an objective level.
This simply means that he matters more to me.
I, as a parent, am not being objective when it comes to my children.
This is not just natural, this is a mechanism that is very much required in order to maintain society.
Had I like had I not felt that I owe my my kid more than I owe any other kid, or that I owe my wife more than any other random person in the street, it is unclear how would a like how forming a functioning society would have been made possible.
In the same way, we argue that a global order without patriotism, in which no citizen feels especially obligated in any way to his own country, is a world that is very hard to imagine how it's how he's supposed to run.
Would it still matter that I am a citizen of one country and not another?
Does this mean that we would have to completely open up our borders for uncontrolled immigration without any limitations?
The repercussions and implications are so huge that they're barely even foreseeable.
Patriotism is also what allows a huge group of tens of millions of people that will never actually meet each other to unite around a common theme, to unite around the flag, around the language, around an anthem.
If people would attribute no importance to all of those things, it seems likely that every man would have just looked looked out for his own personal matters and his family's personal matters.
It is unclear to us why people would be willing to pay taxes, for instance, to help out their fellow americans if like without patriotism.
Patriotism is the glue that holds together all of the pieces in the social puzzle and without it, we will go back to just being separate atoms.
Note that in comparison to the harms that you hear from side government that are not necessary or inherent to patriotism, but only represent what patriotism might lead to in its most extremist form, the harms that we talk about are inherent to a world without patriotism and therefore, patriotism leads to more good than harm.