We're happily willing to accept the criteria offered by side proposition of happiness and self fulfillment to judge this debate by.
But there are some things that are far more important and necessary for one's happiness rather than his good feeling that he has when he went through the trouble of finding a book in the library and that is that he has the basic civil rights and freedoms that he needs and a financial situation that allows him for a minimal level of life with dignity.
We think this is obviously far more fundamental in terms of impact and in terms of allowing people happy lives and we are going to show you how the internet has helped in both these aspects and thus we are winning side government on the very metric that they themselves set.
Before that quick rebuttal.
Two things that come from shimon: first he says that easier doesn't mean happier then when I'm more happy when I have to go through the trouble of like doing something myself to which we answer like firstly fine then go to the library who's stopping you?
Don't use google if you don't want to.
And anyway that is just far less important than the happiness that comes from living in a free society and in social socio economic welfare.
Second thing he says is that it makes people sad because like millennials are now more aware of of trouble and that other people have elsewhere and they suffer from it.
We say firstly to like to many people this is complete baloney because they simply move on after they see horrific images coming from syria and they move on to just see like videos of cats but to the rest that are affected by this, we actually think that that is great, it is wonderful that people in the first world are now more aware the suffering in the third world because that is what recruits them to act in order to improve the situation and with all due respect this does a lot more in terms of helping reduce the amount of of suffer in the world then having like people in the west continuing to live blissfully ignorant.
So okay let's talk about rights and welfare.
We say that that that that specific places where it's like the most important to look to is naturally the developing world where there are oppressive regimes and more people enjoy like the least amount of rights and ask how the internet has influenced there and the answer is crystal clear.
The internet is an arena in which inherently the authoritarian ruler is far less strong.
He doesn't have the power to control people's expressions and to depress opposition and that is why rulers in these places are often doing the very best that they can in order to censor the internet or or prevent it entirely.
We can see how the internet has helped protesters in egypt organize and effectively overthrow the the dictatorship of husni mubarack.
A world without internet in these places means a world where government is always like lurking always watching you and that and this makes it impossible for the citizens to unionize and to do something about it.
So the bottom line is that the internet is the best tool, perhaps the only tool that is able to help and promote civil rights where they are most needed.
In terms of financial benefits, so we say it is impossible to overstate the importance of the internet revolution to financial growth.
Making the physical distance irrelevant, helping people work and cooperate from afar having business partners do their meetings from distant remote places all over the world like without any effort and minimal effort, having business ventures that are like internet based like google and facebook that dominates the top of the global global economy.
Even the ability of small businesses to just publish and advertise their services with like minimal cost has gone up.
The easy access to information helps break the barriers between rich and poor and to promote social mobility.
So when shimon discusses how google makes everything easier but couldn't conveniently ignores the impact that this has in terms of promoting the economy he clearly misses this debate.
Please oppose