We should ban alternative medicine.
In this we mean banning the sale and branding as medicine of anything that wasn't scientifically tested, and proven to withstand objective standards of empirical success.
We think that not only does alternative medicine flat out lies to its followers in the face, it also targets the most vulnerable population, the people that are most desperate and uninformed, and sometimes prevents them from finding other conventional, better solutions that might have actually helped them overcome their ailment.
And by this alternative medicine actively might lead might like endanger lives.
This is why it is not only within our rights to ban it, but this is also our duty.
First argument is about false advertising, and it's a very simple argument.
I cannot advertise a product in a way that contains misinformation.
I cannot say that some product has been proven to be the best in the market, or that some product contains ingredients like some certain ingredients, without it being a hundred percent accurate description of reality.
Because that would be deception, and it would lead people to spend money on a product that they like that had they known what it really is, they would not have wanted to buy it.
Alternative medicine is just that.
It claims to have certain healing abilities and curative powers that it simply doesn't have, according to a vast consensus within the scientific community.
So it's plainly deceitful, and that's already enough of a reason to ban it.
But let's move on to the second argument, and let's take the hardest case possible for our side.
Let's say that there is not at all a matter of false advertising, and let's also assume that there are a lot of people that actually believe in the power of alternative medicine, and like preventing them from accessing it would be harming their free choice, you know.
But why do we still think that it's legitimate to ban it.
Because this specific choice, in many many cases, isn't made in a rational fashion, but rather is subjected to huge immense pressures, because we are dealing with sick people, with people in pain.
These are people that often conventional medicine might not have provided a good enough solution to their problems, and they are desperately seeking anything that might give them a shred of hope, anything that they can hold onto.
That is the perfect target audience for alternative doctors or naturopaths, and they simply supply them with the illusion that these people so desperately want to hear.
We think that it's deeply immoral to take advantage of the distress the people in these situations are subjected to, just to squeeze some money from them, by selling them something useless that gives them false hope.
Often, people put so much faith into naturopaths, that they are actually used as a substitute for actual true doctors, and for a real treatment that might have actually helped them.
Note, we understand that not all cases are like this, and there are people that for whatever reason simply believe alternative medicine without being under any type of duress.
But because we have no way of distinguishing between this group and the group that is being abused, we much rather simply stop with this whole thing altogether, even at the cost of like the free choice of a few bizarre people.
For all of these reasons, we are we beg you to propose.