We should ban racial profiling.
By this we mean ceasing with the practice in which minority populations are being specifically targeted and getting treated unequally from law enforcement authorities.
For example, the way in which people with a middle eastern appearance are getting stopped and frisked at airports and things of the sort.
Instead, we move to apply a more fair system that treats everyone equally, or just perform stop and frisks in a completely random fashion, without any discrimination that's based on race or origin.
We want to do this for two main reasons: the first is that it's unfair, and the second is that it's unwise.
So why isn't this fair?
We think that racial profiling is a clear-cut form of a particularly ugly discrimination.
Even if we're talking only about something that seemingly reasonable, like detaining people in airports and asking them to open their suitcases based on how they look, we think this is incredibly harmful for several reasons.
A, it is essentially a form of punishment for people who committed no crime, except for being born to a certain race or a certain religion.
This is a collective punishment for an entire group that goes out directly against one of the pillars of our legal system, that says that we cannot punish you for a crime that you didn't commit, or that someone else commits.
B, it's degrading and humiliating.
The fact that this is being done publicly and everyone watches you.
The fact that, you know, parents that that five year olds need to see how their moms and dads are being delayed and and treated with suspicion and are powerless to do anything about it, and that they will later have to explain to him why other families weren't detained and they were.
We say that's incredibly humiliating.
C, we say that this is essentially a signal from the government to the entire society that there is an actual reason to be suspicious and weary of these populations.
This validifies prejudice and and xenophobic opinions, that later finds expressions in employment, for instance.
And because of this we say that this is not just something , you know, temporary and and and not just restricted to what's happening at the airport, but this is a significant harm to the entire population all over.
So in our opinion, these are already really really good reasons why we should ban racial profiling, but if that wasn't enough, we would argue that it's also counter-effective in our efforts to prevent terror, and therefore this is not only a malicious idea, but also an incredibly stupid one.
Why?
Well firstly, because if I am truly a terrorist that is looking to smuggle a bomb to an airplane, say, then assuming I'm not a really really stupid person, I would know to conceal my affiliation or to find an accomplice that's not being profiled, thus, you know, narrowing the chances of getting caught.
Therefore it's just not that efficient, because everyone knows that that's what they're doing and and so I can just find ways around it.
But secondly and more importantly, we think that people aren't born terrorists.
And we say that there is no greater gift that we could give radical groups than being discriminative and humiliating and degrading towards minority groups, and making them feel unwelcomed and antagonistic toward society from a very young age.
This is exactly what allows extremists to later recruit more and more members, and so racial profiling indirectly only strengthens terror's hands.
For all of these reasons, we beg you to propose.