I'm going to explain why we mustn't get rid of the organic food label by addressing all of the points that were made by the previous speaker, one by one.
So firstly it seems that the previous speaker thinks that organic food label is all just a manipulative sham.
They don't use certain chemicals but they use others in their stead, and it's not healthier and so on.
So, we're not at all certain that that truly is the case, and it seems a bit odd to us that the previous speaker would simply assert all of this with such confidence.
But note: even if it is the case, then you could always change the criteria to what's considered organic food and include further chemicals that will not allow you to be granted this label.
This is hardly a reason to simply ban this label altogether.
Then he tells us that, you know, the the difference nutrition-wise between , you know, food that's filled with chemicals to food that's chemical-free is negligible.
Now, I'm no expert, but this point sounds very strange to me on its face and anyway, this is not the clash because it is not for the government, like it's it is not the government that gets to decide what people get to think is healthy.
These are things that there is no consensus on, and the best thing to do would be to allow the citizen all of the variety that's possible and let him decide.
A ban would be a crucial, illegitimate intervention in the considerations of the citizen.
Now, government side is likely to answer this by saying, " hey, we're not banning the product itself, just the label. "
But understand that this is effectively the same thing.
Why?
Because producing organic food is more expensive than just normal, traditional, industrial food, exactly because they don't use all of these artificial tricks that are meant to prolong the shelf life of their products and so on.
And we say that people are lazy.
Consumers are lazy.
They won't start to dive into the ingredients of every cucumber that they buy in the supermarket.
So if there's not going to be an organic food label, this means that a crushing majority of people will simply give up on the search for healthier food and won't pay attention to what they're shopping for and at this point, there's simply no economic incentive to produce any more of this organic food.
So, yes, this is a gross intervention by the state.
Secondly, they talk about the economic effects of this label, and they say that it's just an excuse to sell more expensively and rich people, you know, can like afford to purchase the same food with more money.
And my question is what is wrong with that?
The entire market is built on the fact that there are different groups of consumers with different consuming habits, and there are always those that look for luxury items.
Fancy restaurants sell you pretty much the same food in triple the price or or more.
Designer clothes, they sell you the same clothes in outrageous prices and so on and so on, and people can afford to do that because they enjoy the certain label or the certain brand name.
You can see it is a rip-off but it's not necessarily the case.
It's not that you don't get anything in exchange for all this money.
The mere fact that it's so expensive creates a symbol of status that that testifies to your high position in society, and that's exactly the point.
That's what the consumer wants.
So, in short, there are always going to be more wealthy consumers that are going to look for more expensive items and unless the government is aiming to, you know, ban all of these things, all of the luxury items, then it's unclear to us why it picks specifically on organic food.
And then they say that it it drives up the prices of the rest of the of like all of the items, of all the food items, and that's just empirically wrong.
This this does not happen.
Organic food is still something that's relatively harder to find at your regular local store and you have to go to like whole foods or or another place that sells specifically organic food.
And the prices of of fruits and vegetables are lower than they ever were, so we don't understand where all of this is coming from.
And lastly, we hear that it harms smaller farmers.
Now this point is just completely reverse to reality.
Smaller farmers are usually the ones that create organic food, and it is the huge corporations with all of their chemicals that make it that much harder for the smaller farmers to compete.
For all of these reasons, we just don't see a good enough reason to ban the label of organic food, and we think that this would be a gross intervention by the state in considerations that should be left for consumers.
Please oppose.