We should fight global warming.
I don't really see the point in arguing that man-made global warming is happening and that it's it means really bad news to the environment and to the planet, because there is a mountain of evidence to that fact and an overwhelming scientific consensus.
I think that the way to make this debate interesting is by asking the next question: assuming that most of the more serious harms of global warming are going to happen in at least a few generations from now, and truly impact our grandchildren or great grandchildren, is this our fight or their's?
Do we owe them anything?
I will argue that the the answer is yes.
Opposition will argue that it is no, unless they mean to try and deny or doubt the absolute fact of climate change.
So why must we fight global warming?
First of all, because this is a classic situation of if you're not a part of the solution then you're part of the problem.
Meaning if we don't fight it then we are actively helping contribute to this, and that's simply wrong.
We say that that is never okay to impose harm or a great risk of harm on another population.
A risk that you yourself don't feel.
There is a reason why this is called moral hazard.
We think that even if we were not interested at all in the quality of their lives and even if we didn't believe that we have any obligation to leave behind a better world for them, the minimal requirement from us is to not actively and knowingly harm and destroy it for them.
As an example consider the residents of the island pitcairn in the southern pacific ocean.
Now I don't know any of them and probably never will, and it makes sense since there are only a few dozens of them.
Most times I forget they even exist.
I honestly don't concern myself much with their well being, and if some tragedy should happen to them, I'll be sad for a moment, but surely won't actively be compelled to do anything about it.
And still, the minimal moral obligation that I have towards them is to refrain from actively knowingly harm them.
We see no difference between this and the question of fighting global warming.
Secondly, we in fact do feel very much that we should be concerned with the well being of the next generations and not just our own generation.
We think it's exactly similar to how we generally ought care about other people's feelings but ourselves.
This is a crucial condition of the most basic human decency.
And it's also basic gratitude, since previous previous generations did generally concern themselves with us, promoting philosophy and arts and science and technology and inventing new things.
And so the continuing development of human society, which has given us all the relative bounty that our generation enjoys, is built on the principle of reciprocity and the least we can do is return the favor and not be like: " no no.
The good times end with us.
After me comes the flood. "
And just leave our successors to fend for themselves.
For all of these reasons please propose.