Boarding schools are advantageous.
This is not to say that they're always necessarily better than other day schools, but just to show that they have clear innate advantages, and therefore it's good to allow students to consider them as an option.
We understand boarding schools in the context of this debate to mean a school that has dormitories in which the students stay overnight, as opposed to day schools where students get to go home directly after class.
First argument.
Boarding schools help children become more independent.
Living with your parents can be quite comfortable in our millennial day and age.
In many cases in bourgeois families, kids have someone, be it their mom or dad or the housekeeper, that cleans their apartment, cooks for them, does the dishes, and so all they have left to do is basically their homework and then they're free to spend the rest of their time on the computer, or go out with friends, or watching television.
And kids can get pretty used to such conditions.
We believe that this leads to some of the well known problems that the generation that we call the y generation suffers from.
Namely a lack of motivation to find a job or work hard, difficulty leaving their parents' house and so on.
With boarding schools things are different.
There, children are forced to start taking care of themselves.
Even if this means just laying their own beds for a change, it's already something.
They become more in charge of their schedule, they need to make sure that they do their homework on time for example, because mommy isn't there to supervise and nudge.
In fact, like the fact that you share your room with other kids your age is also important, because you're forced to develop social skills and not just tune in to your playstation.
We believe that the sooner that these little responsibilities start trickling down, the easier it becomes to turn into an independent hard working individual in the future.
This is again especially important today where it's becoming more and more of a common sight to see young people reaching their thirties with no plan in life, and not always emotionally or socially ready to step out of their parents' protective bubble.
We would add that we believe that these schools are an inseperable part of what the education system and schools are supposed to like set as goals.
Had we just wanted to pass on knowledge to our children, we could have used the internet and not have them leave their rooms.
Schools are meant for these fruitful interactions with other children that better prepare children for life in society.
Second argument.
Boarding schools encourage curiosity and self development.
When you spend half the day at school studying and then get to go back home, this creates this feeling of a dichotomy, like the part of your day where you had to work hard is over, and now you get to rest.
As is the case for many working adults by the way.
That is why children just tend to spend the rest of the day in leisure.
We believe that for young children this dichotomy is false and unfortunate.
These are exactly the years that they should be busy trying to investigate the world around them, see what fields they find interesting, what talents they might possess.
Sadly, this initiative spirit is getting rare among these among this generation.
Music lessons and book clubs are facing a very hard competition with instagram and twitter and snapchat.
These things grant immediate satisfaction without having to work hard, and so they are winning the battle over the minds of our youth.
We believe that boarding schools are better equipped to light the spark of curiosity.
That is because your entire day revolves around nonstop learning.
The school offers many extracurricular activities, you don't have a cozy room to dwell in, you spend more time out with other people, and so the chances that you might actually do something that will contribute to your general knowledge or education, more than just flipping through cat videos, grow exponentially.
For all of these reasons, please propose.