I'll be honest.
I don't see any way in which I could seriously argue that global warming isn't a threat.
Of course it is.
There's a scientific consensus.
All the evidence points out that it's actually there, it's happening and as a result, all of the bad things that the previous speaker mentioned, they're simply true, you know, the info slide says that much.
So, there's no real point in arguing here.
This is why in order to make the subject more interesting or debatable, I'm going to cheat a little bit and play with the meaning of how this motion can be understood.
This might not be the fairest way to go.
I am truly sorry, I just don't know what else I could say in response to what has already been said, without bluntly lying or denying facts.
So the way that I choose to interpret this motion is whether the threat of global warming is such that justifies all of the actions that countries are, you know, that countries are taking, all the steps that countries are taking and that international organizations are taking today that are meant to, you know, fight global warming.
And here, there's already a bit of a room to oppose.
Such measures include mostly quotas on missions and heavy fines for countries that exceed their quota.
We are going to oppose these measures on two grounds.
Firstly, we're going to say that they are unfair and unjust.
And secondly, we're going to say that they're inefficient.
So, why are they unfair?
The reason that these measures are unfair is that, like any other decision that is set by international like the big international institutes like the UN, is that these this decisions are skewed in favor of the strong countries that de facto control these institutions, namely, the united states, and against countries like china, for instance.
These are decisions that under the disguise of environmental decisions are actually meant to preserve the existing global order and the united states' strength as a global superpower.
How does this bias look like?
We say that industrial countries, like china, are required to to to adhere to far stricter standards and the enforcement upon them is much stricter than other countries.
This is how the united states is able to block the advancement the industrial advancement of china that is a major threat to its global hegemony.
So that's that.
Now let's explain why they are inefficient.
By this we mean that there is a better alternative and that is, funny as it may sound, just wait and do nothing for now.
Why is that better?
Because we must remember that the damage the foreseen damage from climate change will only come years into the future, not tomorrow morning.
This might seem like an irrelevant fact, but this is a game changer.
Why?
Because what daniel leaves out of the equation when he lists the potential harms and costs of dealing with global warming in the future is that the human kind keeps becoming more and more rich and more and more advanced in a rapid pace.
Now, it's possible, it's even likely, that in the near future we are going to come up with new technological ways to eradicate the threat of global warming altogether, which means that all of our previous efforts were basically meaningless.
But even if not, we say that people and countries will become meaningfully richer by the time that we have to deal with the with all of these effects and , thus, better able to deal with the costs of like direct head-on solutions.
But in order for that to actually happen, we must allow modernization to rush forward without limiting it, which is what happens today.
Just like it's a wildly accepted economic fact that forcing austerity measures in a country that's in that's highly in debt, like greece, for instance, only speeds up the economic downfall of that country and causes it to default, and it would be better to just let the market evolve and do his own thing without intervention, and the solution will just present itself.
We think that's analogous to the question of climate change in a global level.
So, for all of these reasons, please oppose.