We should adopt socialism.
We should do so because private property and the capitalist system is an assault on human dignity.
There are many different types and versions of socialism.
What we advocate is a system where means of production are owned collectively, resources are distributed equally, and the market is managed by a central planning body that enjoys public support and is democratically elected.
We'll refer to this model, from now on, as democratic socialism.
I will bring forth a comparative analysis of the good side and the bad side of socialism compared to capitalism.
What are we forced to give up under each of these systems and what do we gain in return?
I'll show that socialism is the clear winner in this tradeoff.
The huge clash between those two distinctly opposite ideologies that refuses to be settled is due to a fundamental clash between two different core values: equality, championed by socialists, and freedom, championed by capitalists.
Both are extremely important on an intuitive level.
However, they seem to be inherently mutually exclusive, at least to an extent.
A direct result of implementing full freedom is the lack of equality, and a direct result of enforcing full equality is the lack of freedom.
This is a tough nut to crack, a tradeoff indeed.
It seems the pursuit after one of these goals will need to be forsaken either way, but which one?
They both seem to intuitively be of equal importance.
Have we arrived in a symmetrical deadlock?
My burden in this debate is to show that freedom is the value that should be sacrificed.
My opponent's burden is to explain why it is equality that needs to be sacrificed.
Well, here are two suggestions on how we should weigh between the two.
The first suggestion is to ask which one of these values can truly exist with the complete lack of the other?
In this case, we argue that whereas equality is completely independent of freedom, the the symmetric claim isn't true.
There can be no true freedom where there is no equality.
A capitalist system with its free markets guarantees an ever-growing class of poor and helpless people that can barely afford food to eat, while the rich keep getting richer.
How free are those people?
For them, we get neither equality nor true freedom.
Being free to theoretically do what you like has no meaning where you don't have any means to do so.
With socialism, we at least get what we came in for.
The second way which we can weigh between these options is to ask which one of them forces us to make a bigger sacrifice of the value being sacrificed or, in other words, what is there less of: freedom under socialism or equality under capitalism?
We believe that the answer is quite clearly the latter.
The freedom you give up under democratic socialism is related mostly to your professional life.
You can no longer choose what you want to do for a living and can't control how much you earn.
However, you are free to purchase what you will with the fixed amount of money you earn.
You are free to do whatever you want in your spare time, free to marry whoever you like, so freedom is only being sacrificed to a very specific degree.
Yes, we acknowledge it's a big price to pay.
We're not denying it, but we think it should also be honestly compared to the status quo under capitalism in which most people also can't really choose to do whatever they want to do for a living, and countless people hate their jobs but have no choice.
Again, this is an illusion of freedom rather than actual freedom.
On the other side of the scale, we give we give up on equality completely.
The system is built in such a way that guarantees success if you were born to the right parents and absolute failure and misery if you're born to the wrong ones.
So, because we are facing an inescapable tradeoff but we sacrifice less under socialism, we should definitely adopt it.