Shimon only talks about advantages of a transition to green technology, as if he is not talking about a radical step that basically means changing roughly ninety percent of the global energy markets in the way that it's built today, as if it is not something that that requires a vast investment of huge sums of money and time to spend on research and development and on building new facilities and infrastructure that is going to exchange all that already exists within the status quo.
Look, we're not fundamentally against a natural, gradual process of developing new sources of green energy but in order for there to truly be a debate here, we must assume that side government calls for an expedited and forced transition.
Our points are going to be in direct engagement to the points that were made by the prime minister.
First, he talks about a moral obligation.
This notion that every generation is obligated to leave a better world for the next generation, like a pregnant woman.
Well, we say that we need to separate here between two types of harms.
One is a long term harm, a harm that's that its results will only be felt within a hundred years or more.
Global warming is a good example.
The second is an immediate harm, like shimon talks about how pollution has medical implications to who ever already lives today.
So, as far as short term harms we do not argue.
We think that simply this is why we have mechanisms like a negative tax on pollution, that are meant to make sure that companies try to reduce as much as possible their emissions of pollutions and so on and so forth.
But the more interesting argument here, has to do with the long term harms and the obligation to future generations.
We do not agree that we are somewhat, that we are like especially obligated to the people that are going to live here in a hundred years from now, in a way that we should actually limit the way that we are handling ourselves in the present.
The reason is that potential people from the from the future just don't have rights.
Rights come from interests, I cannot harm somebody's right if he doesn't have an interest.
If I like kick a stone in the street it would be like, it would have no meaning to say that I have violated its right.
Someone that doesn't exist just doesn't have interest, therefore he doesn't have rights, as soon as he is born, or mm like better yet, as soon as he has interests then I am obligated not to hurt them.
The example of pregnancy, that shimon brings up, is of course confusing because it's not exactly clear whether a fetus is a creature that has interest and therefore whether it has rights.
Shimon says that we do not want for a pregnant woman to drink alcohol, but would it be okay with him if she has an abortion?
Anyway, clearly, someone that is going to be born in a hundred years from now is, like, clearly not a creature that has rights and therefore it has no meaning to say that we are morally obligated to it.
This also answers shimon's short point, about how we are somehow directly obligated to the environment itself.
This is nonsense.
The environment is not alive, it doesn't have rights.
Next, shimon talks about the political and financial benefits.
How we are today dependent on resources that come from the gulf and they set the prices and so on.
Let's start from answering the political benefits.
First answer is shimon himself recognizes that there are alternatives for independent production of energy that is not green and with some like playing with tariffs there is no reason that we will not be able to control the prices.
Second answer is, we are not entirely sure that it's a good idea to completely stop our political and financial investment in the gulf area.
These trades, trade eh relations that these countries have with the west, that are founded on oil, have brought to them being nearly the only states in the muslim world that are enjoying a, like, stability.
This can quickly deteriorate once the west dis-attaches itself from them.
As far as economic benefits as I said in the beginning, the initial cost of developing proper alternatives is unimaginable, not to talk about a quick loss of tens of thousands of jobs to people that work in the traditional non green energy market.
Please oppose.