In this speech I will simply address the three arguments made by side government one by one, and answer them.
So the first argument that we hear is about cruelty.
They tell us that zoos are cruel to animals, because they are unable to provide the habitat that they are used to in nature, and that's just like keeping people in prison, and it deprives them of their ability to socialize naturally, and so on and so forth.
We have two answers to this argument.
The first answer is that while we acknowledge that conditions for animals in zoos aren't perfect, it's not all bad.
We have to remember that the alternative for these animals is life in the wild, which are also often vicious and cruel, because every day in the jungle is a renewed struggle to survive.
You have to hunt your food yourself, and great many animals fail at this and die of hunger.
Or you have to be careful not to be hunted and eaten and be used as someone else's food.
So, these are all concerns that animals in the zoo don't experience.
So on one hand, yes, they are held in captivity, they don't have vast space to move around.
But on the other hand, their lives aren't at constant danger.
I'm not so sure that that it's such a bad deal.
The second response is that even if you don't buy the first one, let's say that the animals do suffer a a great deal.
They certainly don't suffer any more that than animals in the food industry do.
They certainly don't suffer any more than animals being used for cosmetic experiments.
They are certainly not suffering more than animals in the circus.
These are all things that humans can survive without, but we don't hear any word about this from the previous speaker.
People use animals for entertainments all the time.
This was always the case, this always will be the case, and in fact we are okay with this.
We we think that we are intellectually and emotionally superior creatures to animals, this is what makes human will and desire more significant.
The next points the next argument that they make is that zoos are a bad form of education to whoever visits them.
Why?
Because this doesn't really raise awareness, this creates some sort of false consciousness, because it doesn't really help out elephants in africa, and there are other things that can do a much better job at this, like conservation parks or national geographic programs.
So, we say that obviously zoos are not meant to help extinct elephants in africa, but that doesn't mean that they are not an excellent educational tool for their visitors to learn more about animals, to whoever finds this fascinating.
Because there's only so little that you can learn from reading books and watching documentaries, that's an entirely different learning experience from meeting the animal face to face, from being able to actually observe it firsthand.
In addition, we don't understand why this is mutually exclusive.
Whoever cares about elephants in africa will donate to whatever charity that deals with this problem, and whoever wants to be able to learn more firsthand about panda bears will donate money to the local zoo.
We just don't understand where's the harm here.
But thirdly, we hear that zoos are a bad way to spend public funds.
Why?
Because it's better to spend them on schools.
We say that this is just a false dichotomy, because we cannot think of every penny spent as a penny that wasn't spent on other things.
This line of thinking never ends, because every penny spent on infrastructure wasn't spent on education, and any penny spent on education wasn't spent on health, and any money any penny every penny spent on health wasn't spent on security.
That obviously these are all things that the country has to account for.
So then james argues that well, the state never spends public funds in order to subsidize other forms of entertainment, but for zoos.
This is obviously simply false.
Look at parks, look at theaters, look at museums, in fact all of these things are things that the state has to spend public funds to subsidize, because they fall under the category of public goods that the market just isn't able to provide well enough on its own.
So because we see that none of the arguments made by side government stand up to scrutiny, we are proud to oppose.