We should increase international volunteering.
So, since volunteering is supposed to be, you know, voluntary, I'm not sure what it means to take policy measures to increase it.
So, I'm setting this debate up as purely principled debate where the question at hand is whether it's legitimate to volunteer outside your home country rather than in it.
We will argue that it is.
The other side will argue that your neighbors ought come first.
For the purposes of this debate, we'll also assume that the two are to some extent mutually exclusive.
Otherwise it would be very hard to oppose extra volunteering.
So it seems that the main question in this debate should be what is the criterion for a worthy charity work.
And it looks like opposition side of this debate want to claim that the criteria is national, or somehow identity based.
A worthy volunteering is one that helps out the group that I belong to, whereas the criterion that we seek to defend is the criterion of where is my help needed the most.
So first of all we'll explain briefly why do we think that international volunteering fulfills this condition, and then we'll explain why this is a better criterion, a more just criterion.
Well, without diminishing an ounce of the importance of local charities, we think that we can't really compare the suffering or the life conditions of people who need help in the first world and the people who need it in the third world.
First of all, purely quantitatively, like numbers, we are talking about dozens of millions of people facing unimaginable difficulties.
Be it orphans or sick people or hungry people, they do not have the safety nets of social services from the states like people in the western world enjoy.
Their countries are way too poor to even, you know, be concerned about them.
And actually, that's it.
I don't think that we even need to start comparing the quality of the suffering because it's enough to just look at the numbers in order to understand how much our help is drastically needed over there.
Also, like let's add to that that they don't always have the knowledge and the means that people in the west have in terms of like you know medicine or just anything that could help out those populations.
So, let's move on to explain why we think that this is the right criterion.
Well, we think that the national or that the identity based criterion is random and completely meaningless, whereas need and hunger aren't.
We think that to to stand aside and look like to look from aside at the distress of other human beings, and simply say: " we're sorry guys but we have our own problems to take care of ", can never be considered moral.
This pretty much directly contradicts any existing moral theory.
This line of thinking that endorses indifference in in like facing the suffering of whoever is different from you, is one of the core components of every major humanitarian crisis or monstrous act in history.
We would all want someone to help us if we were in dire need of help, and if for nothing else, then for that reason alone we are very proud to propose