The atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki were justified.
Desperate times call for desperate measures and I don't know what we could call desperate times if not the second world war.
This war has collected more lives than any other war before it in history and would have probably continued collecting more victims had it not been for this extreme decision.
First argument, can a war crime ever be justified?
Harming innocent lives is an atrocious crime.
We cannot deny this, but like any other thing that we hold dear, sacrifices must be made sometimes in order to prevent more serious crimes.
We often launch missiles into buildings where a terrorist is hiding knowingly that there's going to be collateral damage because this is the only way to to make sure that there's not going to be more lives lost.
Launching the atom bomb is basically the same reasoning and the same consideration on a larger scale.
We say that specifically in times of war, there is no time and no ability to to have the same set of rational considerations and moral considerations in the same way that it that we would have made them during times of peace.
At times of war the leader don't have any doesn't have any noble options on the table.
He must always ask ask himself one moral question.
What is the least atrocious option?
What is going to result in the least amount of casualties?
And we believe that as long as this is the questions that leaders have in mind than even the most tough decisions can be justified.
If opposition don't agree with this and want to say that there are things that can never be justified, even if they eventually end up saving more lives, they essentially go out against every war ever as unjustified.
Second argument, did the bombing in hiroshima and nagasaki actually save more lives?
So this is of course a hypothetical question that we can never know for sure.
Some historical reports say that japan was on the verge of collapsing in surrendering anyways.
Some say that it had no intentions of doing so.
It is very hard to guess what would have happened if, but we do know, quite certainly, is that the only other viable alternative to this bombing that the truman administration was considering was a ground invasion to japan, and so the question now becomes whether such an invasion would have become more devastating than the atom bomb?
And we think that in all likelihood it would have been.
The japanese where preparing for a long lasting war in which soldiers were ordered to fight until death and never ever surrender.
An invasion would have forced the americans to carpet to like massive carpet bombings and and to lay siege to japanese islands that would have brought that would have brought to starvation of not only japanese soldiers but also many many japanese civilians.
Most tactical estimations at the time spoke about a ground operation with hundreds of thousands of casualties on both sides.
All in all we think that the swift and deadly blow that these two bombs deal dealt were necessary in order to make the murderous and suicidal japanese regime understand that they stand no chances and ended it in and end it then and there.
Lastly we think that there is also room to look at the broader consequences on the global level.
We say that this demonstration of the destructive power of nuclear weapons has used as the main deterrent that has prevented a third world war from breaking in the in the decades of the cold war.
We say that the memory of hiroshima and nagasaki lingers and echoes to this very day and helps to moderate conflicts and prevent escalations.
Those people didn't die in vain.
Please propose.