The right to internet access should be protected.
This is an analysis debate.
We needn't start dwell on how exactly this could be achieved.
The big question in this debate is whether we should look at internet access as a basic right, as something that every individual deserves merely due to the fact that he is a human being.
The easiest way to go here would be to look at other rights that we would all agree that are worthy of protection, try and figure out what is the justification behind those rights, and see if we could implement or apply the same justification to the right to internet access.
So why don't we start by looking at the right to education.
Now this is an acknowledged and well-established right.
It is listed in the united nations bill of rights and so on.
Basically what it says is that every person has the right to receive education and the state must do as best it can in order to provide its citizens with it.
Now, we should note that unlike the right to life or to security and so on, education isn't something that you just cannot live without.
You can you can live even quite decently without education, so why do we still see this as a basic right?
We we believe that the answer to this is that education provides you with a gateway through which you get to experience the world in a different light.
This helps you, like, also obviously, just get some really basic tools that it would be very hard for you to succeed in life later on without.
But it's also something deeper than that.
We think that on the deeper level, we see this as such a basic right because we believe that an illiterate person, someone that never learned how to read and write or that never learned basic math, is a less-developed individual, a less complete individual.
Education has become a necessary condition in people's self-fulfillment, and we argue, as you could probably expect, that the same logic applies to internet access.
It almost goes without saying that internet access provides you with some basic tools to success like to later on succeed in the world, that it would be very hard for you to compete and succeed in life without, right?
But we think that the more interesting claim is that just like education, internet access in today's reality makes you a more complete individual.
Now why is that true?
It's true because just like education, the internet has also become a necessary condition to understand the world around you.
Like more and more social interactions and exchanges of ideas are becoming online-based at which point, preventing you from accessing the internet is just like not allowing you access to the street or to a public sphere.
The internet, and specifically google, are the primary source of knowledge.
It's very hard today to actually learn anything about anything without google.
This is just a much more meaningful much more convenient way of life.
Another thing that we should talk about here is equality.
It were one thing if no one around you had access to internet, but when everyone around you have access to internet and you don't, this would be incredibly difficult for you to fit in in society, precisely like with education.
Think about it.
Each and every one of us walks around today with infinite amount of knowledge sitting in our pockets at just a few clicks distance, and whoever doesn't have it doesn't just isn't just get getting left behind, they get left way, way, way behind.
People without internet access are people that society values less, whether we would like to admit it or not.
And seeing as the right to equality is also a basic right, we think that this is another justification as to why the right to internet access must be protected.
Please propose.