We should abolish zoos.
What's the purpose of zoos?
What do we gain from them, except for amusement, that could possibly justify the ongoing suffering of helpless animals that are trapped there for life?
I understand that there might be a case made in in this in the case of vivisection for like medical research purposes, and perhaps there is there are also real health advantages to eating animal products, but in this case none of that exists but the fact that it's nice to be able to stare at an elephant or take pictures with the leopard.
Indeed opposition side has to defend in this debate the position that says that animals are so morally insignificant that their needs and emotional distress need not matter.
Not even one tiny bit.
We need to understand - many if not most of the animals that live in zoos are not leading happy good lives and I don't care what you've seen in the TV ad on how well the staff treats them as if they're they're best friends.
It's just not true.
Now we could talk about how well their physiological needs are attended to in terms of food in temperature and so on, but let's assume that it they are.
The main problem is with their emotional needs.
Animals cherish freedom and suffer in in captivity.
There is almost no scientist or zoologist that will dispute this fact.
Some of them need to migrate.
Others need to hunt.
This is imprinted in their nature.
And yet they are forced to share a few square foot cell with another two or three of their kind, for pretty much forever.
Many animals need social life with the dynamics of that pack or a herd and they suffer greatly without it.
Not to mention the animals that are being kept in isolation and grow virtually mad due to it.
Many baby cubs are being separated from their parents, that conceived them in the first place only because they've been artificially inseminated because they never had a companion.
And all of this is well before mentioning animals like sea world, where animal, zoos, sorry, like sea world where animals are also forced to perform in the circus shows several times a day, which took physical like physically abusive and physically exhaustive training period in order to teach them all of the tricks.
So in short, visiting a zoo is essentially the same as visiting as like paying money to visit a torture house, where you get to walk around, buy a lollipop and witness all of the torturing as it takes place first hand.
The biggest harm from banning this would be that you won't be able to take your child to see a giraffe anymore in real life.
Except for by the way if you go to a safari in africa or something, which we don't really have a problem with.
So well I'm pretty bummed from not being able to see a real live dragon, but I'll get over it.
This is not an actual harm.
Don't be merciless and cruel where it's absolutely unnecessary.
Propose the motion.