The retirement age that, we have in the status quo, is an ancient relic that might have been more suitable, a hundred years ago when it was set, but in no way is it still relevant today.
What we suggest to do, is to raise the age of retirement from sixty five to at least seventy.
Two arguments here: why this is a crucial step in order to prevent a financial disaster, and, second argument, who is getting hurt here, and why are we okay with that.
First argument: so, the second that a man retires, he deserves some benefits from the state, namely pensions.
In most states we can see, that funding those paid pensions amounts to the single largest expense in the in the countries' budget.
We are talking astronomical sums, so the retirement age marks the point, in which a man stops being a productive citizen, that is like contributing to the state's budget, and is starting to be a source of expenditure for this country.
What we must understand, is that obviously there is no one objective age, in which we can determine that this is like the right retirement age, and that.
So, eventually we have to set an age in a, somewhat like random fashion, in which it is clear that some individual cases are going to be like, this age is going to be too low for them, or too high for them, so how do we still make a decision?
And the answer is, we have to do like a calculation of some average, that is based on the empirical data that we have in the market, and eventually reach a number that is going to be optimal, in terms of people's abilities, and the country's ability, to fund these retirement funds.
The data that affects this decision, is mainly life expectancy, the size of the population, and physical ableness of people to actually work.
We say that these empirical data, have changed drastically along the years, the recent couple of decades, and they are expected to continue changing rapidly in the future.
So, today an average person lives to to see a much older age, at least like ten years from a few decades ago, he stays healthy to a much older age, and be as like since that is the case, then surely the outcome of this formula also needs to change.
That is because, today most countries, most western countries, experience a decrease in the size of the population, and aging, which means that less young people are required to fund more old people, for longer periods of time.
This is unsustainable, and the inevitable outcome is going to be a collapse, and a bankruptcy of the entire social security system, which means that an entire generation of people, that have paid social security and pension funds their entire lives, are going to be left without nothing and going to pay the price for this.
So, second argument who is getting hurt here?
Firstly, it is important to explain that in a long term, there is no actual harm, because for many young people that haven't start started thinking even about their retirement, they will already planned out their career, based on the new situation, therefore, they will have no reason to complain.
So clearly who does get hurt hurt here, from this act of raising the age of retirement, are the people that are today approaching this age, and I've already planned out their paths, or their career, in in like, based on the on the status quo, and are now going to be forced to work several more years.
Why can we live with that?
We say simply because, this damage, and and like we do accept that it's unfair to an extent but, to an extent, but this damage isn't nearly close to the amount of unfairness in damage, that's expected to an entire generation that is going to pay the price as soon as the country, as all economic like all economic experts basically agree on, can no longer withhold its promises.
Please propose.