We agree with side government that we need to rely more heavily on renewable energy to try and avoid a global warming catastrophe.
This is not the clash.
The clash here is whether the right way to do so is by further exploiting specifically hydroelectric dams or other forms of renewable energy, such as solar power and wind power, that are far less damaging to the environment which is, after all, what we are all out to protect here in this debate.
This is the relevant comparison, and there are only two things that were said by the previous speaker that address this particular comparison.
Number one, he says that we can more easily deploy the many more hydroelectric dams than , you know, wind turbines or solar panels, because all you need is running water as opposed to wind or solar power, which is more weather dependent.
This point is quite simply false.
There are plenty more areas that are fit for installing wind turbines or solar panels than there are rivers big enough and with the appropriate geographical conditions for installing more hydroelectric dams.
Now, this is like obviously that's the case and it's also common sense, because you get wind and sun literally everywhere whereas rivers, well, not so much.
Also, it is far easier to just stick a turbine or a solar panel than to build a dam.
So, the truth of the matter is simply that like the the truth is on the opposite side of what they argued.
Number two, they tell us that since the technology of hydroelectric dams is more developed, then it then it would require require less investment flowing into r and d, and we can simply put all of the money to work and start building dams.
These are exactly the types of claims that we should be very, very worried about: we needn't improve, we need not check if there are better alternatives, what we have is good enough.
No, no, no, no, no.
That's exactly how you reach the technological stagnation that leads to an inefficient exploitation of resources that might lead to a global disaster.
This is exactly why the other, less explored alternatives are the ones that should that we should endeavor to further explore, rather than say then like just stay in our comfort zone and and just stick to what we know.
Now here are some things that tim doesn't tell you about hydroelectric dams.
If you haven't gotten to see one, then you should definitely go and see these dams.
They are massive.
These are monsters.
We're not talking about minor neglectible environmental harms, as tim would have you believe.
We are talking about seriously tampering with the direction of the river's water flow, sometimes creating huge floods or huge droughts.
Both things can create irreversible damage to all the crops being raised on the riverside.
We are talking about polluting the drinking water of entire towns or villages.
We are talking about annihilating entire populations of fish that that used to live in that river.
Now, note that all of these consequences are consequences that we could have very easily avoided, when and if we just opt for exploiting wind power or solar power.
The more that we invest in these options, the more that we help protecting our planet and our environment.
For all these reasons, please propose.