We should ban organic food.
Organic food is food that is produced using natural means only.
This means, among other things, no pesticides, and this is what creates a big problem for us in side governments in this debate.
The other side in opposition might try to argue that there are certain health benefits in refraining from using artificial substances like fertilizers or hormones in food production.
The truth of the matter is that there while there's no scientific consensus on this, it may very well be true.
And we don't really care.
All we care about is the lack of pesticides in organic food.
Now why is this such a big problem?
Because pesticides are meant to get rid of potentially dangerous parasites that fester and grow on food that people later eat.
It might not be incredibly good for us to consume pesticized food.
But on the other hand, this helps avoid the much greater risk of eating something infected with some sort of invasive species that will make us much much more ill.
It's possible that the other side will try and answer this point by saying that it's enough to brand organic food as such, like as organic food, and just raise people's awareness to the potential risk thus allowing the consumers to form their own opinion and make up their own mind as to which type of food they wish to eat.
And so you know, they might say that a complete ban is unnecessary.
Here's why this argument fails to work in this specific debate: when you catch a certain viral disease, as a result of eating something infected, that's not just your own personal problem.
You are actively endangering other people around you and society as a whole.
Had it really had it really been just your own personal problem, we would indeed be in support of just raising awareness but not an all out ban.
As is the case with say, coca cola or other food products that might lead to health problems.
But when it comes to catching a virus, there's a collective action problem because there's a certain threshold that, once crossed, puts everyone at risk.
Just like it's enough that a certain percent of people, maybe I don't know, ten, fifteen percent I'm not sure, of the population will not be immuned in a community for this to endanger the entire community including those who were responsible enough and did get immuned and vaccinated.
So in the same manner it's enough for a relatively small percentage of people to be purchasing organic food on a regular basis and exposing themselves to health risks for there to be a potential risk for everyone.
Therefore it's absolutely necessary to ban organic food altogether.
A good example to mention would be the mad cow disease syndrome that's incredibly infectious in cattle and is also transmittable to humans that consume infected meat.
The outbreak of this disease has caused the deaths of over a hundred people in britain.
And obviously it's much more easy to control and prevent such diseases un-organically.
So because this is an incredibly infectious disease, once enough people catch it because they are eating organic food, this also endangers other people around them and this might lead to an outbreak of like a virus in the entire society.
For this reason we beg you to propose the motion.