Side government is devoting the entirety of their speech to showing the damages of algorithmic trading, but what they don't do for a second is offer us an alternative.
This system was invented in order to answer a pressing need of the exchange market in executing large trading orders for which there is simply no reasonable alternative, seeing as the markets just cannot support transferring all of it at once.
So without receiving any concrete feasible alternative offer from side government, we are forced to assume that they simply rather not allow transactions that exceed a certain limit of size or weight.
We therefore think that the world that they wish to create is one where there is a lot more limitations on the market and far more damage to investors, simply because this means that there can be plenty of big deals that might have been mutually beneficial.
We are talking about deals that to many people could have could have been like deals of a lifetime, a once in a lifetime deal, and now cannot take place anymore.
At this point we believe that opposition has already won this debate, but just in order for it to be all the more certain, let's show what are the governments that side government is warning you from, and understand why they are not as worrying as they think.
The first thing that we hear is that algorithmic trading endorses like risky behavior from investors, because they will match their behavior based on the partial information in the market, which will lead to ill-considered risk.
The problem is that people take exactly this type of risk all the time.
The more experience you have, the more you become aware of all the relevant details that you have to take into consideration.
In this case, you could be able to look at the like wider trends and like through time, and not just that at a given situation at a given moment.
If you lack experience then yes, you might fall, but this is no different from the status quo of the stock exchange market in which people take risks often based on a gut feeling, or an unprofound rumor, or partial data.
So we don't understand what's different with algorithmic trading.
Next thing we hear is that this creates a problem of like asymmetry or inequality between big investors and small investors that do not have the means to access algorithmic trading.
But again, we just don't understand how is this different from any other situation where whoever has more resources gets an advantage, gets like a competitive advantage.
If I am a big investor with a lot of money, then I can afford to like take counsel from the best investment advisers that are in the market, and where like small time investors just cannot afford that.
I get better deals from pension funds or from saving funds or from banks.
This is just the way that our market operates, and we do not understand why side government is specifically bothered with algorithmic trading.
For all of these reasons, we beg you to oppose.