Taxation is a necessary evil.
We have to tax our citizens to be able to provide essential services or certain public goods that the market cannot provide all by itself, things like national security, for instance.
But beyond that, we think that high taxation is economically inefficient.
It punishes the rich and by doing so, it harms mainly the poor and therefore, we must oppose it.
Before we move on to explain why this is the case, let's just refute the two arguments that came from the previous speaker.
So the first thing that we hear is that progressive taxation is more fair than a flat tax rate.
And they tell us that, you know, the philosophical foundation for taxation is that when individuals enter society, they give up certain rights in order to gain other rights or other, like, access to certain public goods, and if you benefited more from society and you received more public goods, then it makes sense to require you to pay back more in return.
There are three problems that we have with this argument.
Firstly, so they lean on the theory of social contract, but we simply are going to reject this theory right from the beginning.
We think that it's philosophical mumbo jumbo because no one has ever truly gave his consent to enter that contract.
We say that you don't have a choice but to live in society, and without consent, it's just unclear to us why any of the rest is like stands in the debate.
But secondly, we say that even if we would have accepted this as a justification for taxation, we think that progressive taxation is set by the level of my current income and that is a problem, because whoever said that it's necessarily the same people that earn more money today that have also received more benefits from society?
What if I had been, like, what if I were was brought up hard and I had to build myself up with my own two hands, without any special privileges, without society's help?
Then I get screwed over twice because I receive less and I am forced to give more.
This is unfair, note, according to their own criterion themselves.
But lastly, like thirdly, we say that even if we would have thought that income is the right way to measure how much you enjoyed like more public good from society, we would ask why isn't it enough that we have a flat tax rate, meaning, like, a set percentage of my income that's being taxed, and that already takes care of the rich paying more than the poor.
And that's exactly what side government wants.
Moreover, we say that the rich also pay more, like, taxes to the country through direct taxation, like like indirect taxation like VAT, for instance, because they buy more expensive products.
And if they have a firm in their possession, then they also pay corporate taxes.
So, progressive tax rate means that all of this isn't enough.
We need to take more money from the rich, and this is essentially just this means that we are punishing whoever made it in life.
And the analysis that we've received from side government just isn't sufficient in order to actually justify all of this.
The second argument is that like they tell us that this will create more revenues to the government.
We simply don't see this as a good thing.
Again, we think that taxation is a necessary evil, and we should always aspire to keep it at a minimum.
So, lastly, we move on to explain why we think that this will be economically inefficient and will harm everybody.
And what we say that what side government neglects to mention is that taxation always operates as an inhibitor to economic activity, and it's easy to understand why.
We say that people act rationally, and they act in order to maximize profits.
This is especially true to the people that make a lot of money, and those are the ones that have a lot to lose from progressive taxation because they know that a large chunk of their revenues is about to be taken away by the government, and they factor this into their decisions, which makes them minimize their activity.
This means that they need to hire less workers than they otherwise would have, which means that it's the weakest citizens that need those jobs that are going to be kept unemployed.
I don't have time to further elaborate but I think my point is now clear.
So for all these reasons, we are proud to oppose.