We should end athletic scholarships.
So, for the sake of this debate, we'll assume that we're talking about scholarships that are granted primarily to students, like minority students, disenfranchise students, that excel in sports and that in return, they are obligated to participate and compete in one of the college or university's sports clubs.
So the first thing to say here is that we need to understand that the institutions use these this tool in order to track and to hunt down young promising talents and add them to their teams.
It's not that they're truly interested in justice or in allowing these minority like these poor minority kids opportunities in life.
They only want to win because for certain reason, americans care far too much about sports competitions between colleges and universities to the point of near obsession.
Why does this matter?
Because eventually what happens is that the institution has the incentive to allow these students to train and and and like practice as much as possible and to focus as much as possible on the field and on the court and not in their studies.
So, although there are allegedly, like, academic requirements and they have to pass tests and so on, they are either being overlooked or sometimes like the university actually helps out the student to cheat in the exams in order to pass and so on.
Now, obviously, this isn't always the situation and there are exceptions, but that's pretty much the spirit of things.
So, this means that this title or this degree or this diploma that this student is going to receive by the end of his studies will not really be earned.
This turns it meaningless.
And this is bad also because it's like unfair to all of the other students that did have to study and work hard to to receive it, but also because this harms this very student himself that didn't really learn anything and that is going to find himself, later in life, like whether he goes and has an an athletic career this that will end one day or if he doesn't succeed without important basic knowledge in life.
But before the other side jumps and says: yeah, but what about the comparative?
Is it better that this like that this youth is just going to live out in the street or whatever?
Here is the true counterfactual.
We say that we can and we should still invest in in like granting scholarships to disenfranchised populations, without tying it to sports, though.
And we can still recruit young promising athletes to for to like junior league clubs that will open up the like gates for them to reach major leagues in the future.
There's just no need to tie between the two of these things.
And the last thing that I have to say, and I sort of touched on that earlier, is that these scholarships help feed the obsession that these institutions of higher education have with winning in sports competitions.
This turns into a sort of like a race between colleges of who is able to recruit the fastest quarterback or the or the tallest basketball player, as if we're talking about NFL or NBA or something.
And I think that this has crossed the reasonable like line of healthy competition.
There's nothing wrong in having a college league and holding sports events and championships between representatives of different colleges.
Hell, I represent my university in the debating league.
But as soon as this stops being like a fun extra activity, a a bonus alongside the actual studying part, and start being the main concern of the students and even worse, the main concern of the institution itself, we have a problem.
And it's not just because this gets too time-consuming and comes at the expense of academic work, but it's also because, you know, in sports, like in sports, friendly rivalries can quickly escalate to like real animosity between rivals.
And universities are institutions that need to work together, to cooperate, to hold mutual projects and researches, and instead they become busy with hating each other and just like only thinking of how to like beat the other team, the other college in football.
And this like already defeat defeats the entire purpose.
Without scholarships then, it's likely that things will go back to the the healthy proportions.
Support this motion.