We should increase the fuel tax.
Fuel in the united states is very cheap relatively to other developed nations in the world and so is the tax rate on gas.
This contributes to the existing situation in which americans end up consuming more gasoline than nearly any other country.
This creates a number of problems two of which we shall discuss in this speech.
A, a high level of pollution that harms the environment.
So the more that people are driving, the more it pollutes the environment.
We think that's pretty elementary.
This pollution of course is a negative externality that the entire society is forced to pay the price for.
Raising the tax which makes fuel more expensive can be used in order to make consumers internalize this cost and this way we can reach a better equilibrium that takes into account the harm to society and to the environment.
This tactic of negative taxation to deal with negative externalities is very common in various other fields.
For instance if there is a factory that pollutes like the waters of a river nearby that there's a and there's like a village that is using that water from the river for drinking, then we have a market failure because the cost of pollution isn't felt by the factory owner and so this factory owner has an incentive to continue on polluting as much as as much as possible.
In order to deal with this what we do is we make him pay a tax on pollution that is proportional to the amount of damage that is being caused as a result from the pollution.
And so the factory will take care of reducing the amount of pollution until the like amount that is going to be optimal.
Same thing exactly goes with drivers and fuel.
Second thing is, on the second problem, is a high dependency on on private transportation that is presenting other alternatives from being formed.
So seeing as gas is cheap, many people are incentivized to own a car.
And so other alternatives to transportation just don't seem appealing enough.
These alternatives can be things like, I don't know, a higher quality public transportation, carpool and so on.
Why is this so bad?
Because judging by other places in the world these alternatives are potentially cheaper, greener, and most importantly they will make the US less dependent on foreign oil.
The biggest exporters of fossil fuels are countries that are not exactly friendly to the united states and the dependency on fuel forces us to pay a heavy political price.
For instance, it's provides countries like saudi arabia with a very strong position of power that doesn't allow the US to criticize the horrible way in which women women's rights are being trampled by the local regime there.
Raising the fuel tax can help us become more independent and that's great.
Another advantage in raising the fuel tax is in lies in the ability to use this revenue from taxation in order to improve the status of infrastructure for roads and highways that desperately requires improvement.
The budget for these type of things is based on incomes and revenues coming from these taxes exactly and that is why they are in such bad shape today.
With so many drivers even like a one dollar raise per gallon means huge amounts of money that could be used to to even lower other types of taxes like income tax.
So for all of these reasons please propose.