Same-sex marriage brings more good than harm.
Not allowing a couple of consensual adults to marry each other because other people disapprove of their relationship is the definition of absurd.
The state has no business in telling me who I should live with.
The ban on gay marriage isn't only discriminative to same-sex couples, it also humiliates them and refuses them the very basic dignity of acknowledging that their love is equal to that of any other couple.
Two arguments in this speech: firstly, on discrimination by humiliation and secondly, on like what about religious people's feelings?
First argument: I have no intention to speak of whether marriage is a basic right or not.
As far as I care, the state can say that as of today, no one gets married.
But it seems fairly simple that if some people are allowed to marry, then everyone should be able to do so.
Personally, I do not see any supreme importance in this institution.
I think that it's just a symbolic thing.
The point is that the moment that this custom is adopted and even somewhat glorified by society, then it doesn't matter anymore.
The fact that society awards this ritual with so much meaning and like is what gives it its meaning, because all of us want to feel a part of society.
All of us want to go through the same rituals that everybody else goes through so that we feel we belong.
By denying a certain group this ceremony, the message they are getting is: you guys are not a part of us, you're not like us, you're unwelcome.
Just like so many other cases of discrimination, it's not about the thing itself that's being denied, but rather about the feeling that this denial creates.
Think of a business that refuses to serve african americans, for example.
There are a million other places that these people can go to, right?
But the problem isn't that we've denied them this particular service, but that we've treated them as less deserving.
This is what's so bad about discrimination, and this is also why when opposes to gay marriage innocently offer all kinds of alternatives that give it a different name, like civil partnership or whatever.
We say, " you know what, you can shove it. "
Excuse my french.
That's just like like the separate but equal policy.
Separate isn't equal, and until we give it the exact same name, then this will continue to be used as a tool to distinguish between what's considered normal and what isn't, and this is unacceptable to us.
Second argument: the main source of opposition to gay marriage has always been religion.
Now, there are those who claim that this isn't god's intention and blah blah.
I'm not honoring that with a reponse.
What I will do, though, is answer what I believe to be the strongest argument in regard to religion and that is that marriage is essentially a religious institution that requires , you know, registers that are often religious people and therefore, it's unfair to demand that they perform ceremonies or sign papers contrary to their religious , you know, beliefs or conscience.
So, in short, let's call it the kim davis example, you know, after the famous clerk from kentucky.
Our answer is twofold.
A: we believe this is a simple that can easily be solved by saying that every public servant that can't fulfill his job according to the law and refuses to operate in an indiscriminatory fashion should just resign and remove himself in favor of someone who will.
But but second answer, and that's the deeper answer that addresses also the balance between religious feelings and same-sex couples, we say we say the following: whenever there is a clash between two different lifestyles, or rather two groups that have the same set of beliefs that can't coexist, you know, where you can't please one group without harming the other, we should always prioritize the group that's not denying the other group.
To put it in kindergarten terms, we ought prioritize whoever didn't start it.
Same-sex couples ask for no trouble.
They're not trying to tell religious people how to lead their lives or that they shouldn't be religious.
They just want to be treated equally.
As far as they're concerned, everyone could have gotten along perfectly but sadly, they do not get symmetric treatment from the religious community that that to begin with, say that the problem is with the gays' lifestyles and they should change or be discriminated.
This is not a legitimate belief belief.
This is bullying and we should we should not be considerate towards it.
For all of these, please propose.