The huge advantage of being able to sit in your living room and get direct access to people and cultures from all around the world is drastic.
It changed the world.
So even if it comes at a certain price which, of course, it does, we still think that this is a price that was worth paying.
Let's begin with a rebuttal.
First, we hear that people read less, and we fully accept that.
It's just that we think that the harm here is mainly nostalgic.
Reading has become like once was so significant that it's harder for us to accept that today it's becoming less relevant.
But let's respond to the harms that government side is trying to convince us of.
First they say that there will be more illiterate people.
Two answers here.
First, come on, television is not the reason why people are illiterate.
Illiterate people are usually very poor.
They're people that that, you know, have to work for a living and they can't afford to send their children to school where they will eventually learn how to read or write, so we say that the reason is probably not that their children are sitting at at home glued to the TV set.
But second answer is we would ask what's inherently good about literacy in a world where it's becoming less relevant.
We say that as long as literacy is going to be something that that gets you through in life and you would have to learn as a valuable skill, then people will still be literate.
But in a world where it's becoming less relevant, and you can get all of your information from television and you don't really have to read or write anything, then we don't see what's inherently good about knowing these things.
And next we hear that television endorses less critical thinking, you know, because you're being fed all of your information without having to think this over in your own head.
We would say that this is an interesting point but ultimately we would have to reject it.
We say that the problem with critical thinking is that people automatically listen to characters of authority, and eventually it all boils down to just how much you were taught to accept things at face value or to think critically for yourself.
We think that there's no inherent reason to tie this to the medium in which you get your information.
This could just as well be happening while reading a newspaper.
You could read a an article from a reporter that you respect and you will just find it reliable without thinking twice.
On the other hand, it's possible for people to also be critical to what they see on television.
It all boils down to who they are.
Then we hear about the damage to the harm to children.
We hear that this endorses children to stay at home glued to the screen, and they could have like alternative internalive/alternative alternatively, they could have played more outside and be less obese and develop social skills and cognitive skills.
We say that's probably true to an extent.
We're going to accept that, but we will mention that you still have to go to school, you have to play with other children during recess, and a lot of kids are still interested in sports or in dancing, and so on and so on.
And then we hear about television normalizing people to social norms like there like gender roles in society.
We would ask how the previous speaker explains the fact that before there were televisions, like a hundred years ago, a hundred fifty years ago, these gender roles were a lot more harsh than they are today.
We say that, if anything, television can help expose you to other models that are different from what you know that exist, and this exposure makes the uncertainty and the fear of the unknown to dissipate.
So our positive point is rather simple, and we've already hinted to it just now.
We say that in a world without television, maybe I would have read more, maybe I would have gone out to play more as a child, but on the other side, on the other hand, I would have been essentially confined to my neighborhood, to my small village, to the small place where I live.
Now, true, I could have read about like I could have read in a book about different places and different people, but then I would have to imagine in my own head how it looks like over there.
How does the accent sound?
It's not the same thing.
Television exposes you in an almost personal manner to other people from other cultures.
Why is this so critical?
Because people fear what they do not know.
It's very easy to sell to people the concept that other people are not like us, and they want like and they want what's bad for us.
We think that this is this makes it a lot easier to create animosity between different nations that bring wars.
We we think that is much easier for politicians to play on on social rifts between the north and the south or the east and the west and so on.
But once you see in your own eyes that other people are much more like you than you thought, this all gets a lot harder.
This is a unique advantage that television has and it's much more important than the fact that it's fun and entertaining.
It's also worth the fact that children would become a little more addicted to it.
For all these reasons, please oppose.