Single sex schools bring more good than harm.
On side government we argue that there are two distinct roles that schools have and they are: a, teaching, as in exposing children to knowledge and helping them develop important skills on several different fields that will help them in the future, and b, socializing, as in allowing these children to fruitfully interact and , like, collect social experiences by which they will be better prepared for life in society.
Two arguments today.
First, why do mixed schools harm the ability of the schools to actually teach and two, why did single sex schools don't harm the social skills of the children.
Before we begin, just to clarify, we are talking about the ages of middle school and high school and obviously we assume that the level of teaching and the level of like facilities and services is going to be identical for both genders.
First argument: what was once true to only children in high school is becoming in the in the last couple of generations more and more true in younger and younger ages and that is that girls and boys suddenly discover each other.
Hormones begin to run wild, friendships begin to form and the classrooms are filled with teen spirit.
At this point it is only natural for children to be incredibly preoccupied with their social situation.
How do they look like?
Who took up an interest in them?
Etcetera.
We say that at this stage entering thirty teenagers, girls and boys, into the same room for several hours each day and expect that they would be actually able to sit down concentrate and study math is just sheer lunacy.
Even if some of them were interested in actually studying we say that these children were not couldn't afford it because they will immediately be branded as uncool and lose the favor of the other sex.
And even if there are still two or three children that are just trying to still focus we say that this gets almost impossible when the rest of the class is so busy doing other things and the teacher spends half the time trying to shut everybody up.
Now this is of course a slight exaggeration but the point is that once we separate girls and boys children will spend far less time at in like gazing at someone they have a crush on or worrying how they look like or what other people might think of them and then they get more like open or they get more focused and they can sit down and study.
We say that when schools want to put like forty children in one classroom then immediately we see a response coming from the parents and from everyone in society that this isn't right.
And we say that this is a justified response because this is a surrounding unfit for studying.
Well same goes here.
Second argument: opposition is going to try and tell you that these distractions are an inseparable part of growing up and that single sex schools are going to like prevent the children from experiencing important interactions with the other sex.
We agree that these interactions are an important part of like maturity, but it is unclear to us why can't these interactions and friendships be formed outside of school.
We say that when we said that that the school system has two roles, they are not equally important because the school's main job is to actually be able to teach children and the rest like the socializing part is just a byproduct that comes with it.
It is important but school isn't necessarily needed in order to form this.
Children today are hanging out more and more in inter school gangs.
We have after school activities we have the neighborhood public areas and again girls and boys are going to just be so busy thinking about one another that we are sure that they will manage with finding one another so let's at least keep the classroom sterile place and where they can actually sit down and study something.
We beg you to propose.