Just like many institutions of higher education even the most luxurious ones require their students to participate in physical activities or to do sports of some kind.
It seems perfectly reasonable to us that we're going to have academic requirements from athletes.
We think that both training your mind and training your body are of the highest importance and under no circumstance do we agree with side government's logic that assumes that these two things are necessarily mutually exclusive or that people have to be completely devoted to their academic studies or to their sports alone.
We would even dare say that it's unwise and unhealthy to be invested all in in just one of these things without the other and it's the combination of them of the two that like even if it means that you can devote less of your time to just sports or to just studying, it makes you a richer person as opposed to just one dimensional.
So the government start by saying that athletic scholarships are a shameful exploitation of the athletes.
This claim is absurd right on its face because nobody's forcing these sportsmen to go there.
They choose to.
So unless the government thinks that all of these athletes are stupid enough to continue entering willfully this trap in which they're being exploited and don't gain anything in return, then they must agree that these people probably think that they are getting something in return.
So what they say is basically that that their diploma or the degree that they're going to earn by the end of their college time isn't going to really be useful to them.
Here are a few answers to this.
One, there are a million students that graduate college and then don't use the actual knowledge that they've obtained or the diploma that they've got and that's after unlike these athletes they were also forced to pay ridiculous amount of money for it, but as long as they entered voluntarily, we don't think that you can seriously call this exploitation.
Two, we merely don't accept this claim.
We think that many do make good use of their degree or of the tools that they've acquired in a later stage in life.
We mustn't forget that a lot of the people on scholarships don't make it to become professional athletes and will need to pursue other career directions and even the one that that do make it and become professional athletes you know usually their sports careers end at a relatively young age and they will still have to find employment in other fields.
So without the diploma that they've received because of the scholarship, it's going to be a lot harder for them.
This is true even if government government are right in assuming that these people aren't going to excel in their studies because at least they had the title and that in and of itself is a very important signal to employers today in the job market.
Third answer, we also think that studying is really not the only thing that people stand to gain from the experience of higher education.
This is a social experience that a lot of people consider to be one of the most beautiful periods in their lives.
You get to mix and mingle with all sorts of people from all types of different fields of interest in different different backgrounds.
You often are a part of a fraternity or a sorority that's especially true to jocks, by the way, in which you are going to form friendships that will accompany you later in life.
Countless people found their significant others in college.
These are all meaningful stuff and we can we can't like for certain, just say with such ease that you graduate without having anything like without gaining anything.
We think that's ridiculous.
Fourth answer and final answer, we say that since we are talking about minority populations dissident franchise populations we think that without college there is a high risk that many of them are going to lead very hard lives, street lives.
College gives them a purpose.
It gives them a framework.
It makes you a part of a team.
It teaches you discipline.
Okay so now all that's left is for us to deal with the counter factual that side government is offering of junior leagues.
Basically we say that based on all of the things that we've already said this counter-factual has a lot like far fewer advantages.
It tracks people into focusing on sports only and by so, it shallows them down to just one dimension and doesn't provide them with the tools in case they don't become, you know, as rich as lebron james and will actually need to find another job which you know is kind of likely.
It prevents them the social like the meaningful social experience of college and the interaction with people outside of the sports world.
Athletic scholarships are a win win situation.
They're a marvelous thing.
Please oppose the motion.