We should abolish attorney client privilege.
Two arguments: first some information is just too like more important than the defendant's ability to trust his lawyer.
And secondly on the unfair moral burden assumed by lawyers due to this privilege.
So the first argument goes like this: the logic behind granting this privilege is to allow defendants to more easily trust their lawyers.
Who have to be able to confide in the person in charge of protecting you and feel that you can say anything to him.
This way you can be properly represented and so on, and there's actually a lot of logic and sense in this.
But what happens in the moment where a defendant in a murder trial that insists on pleading innocent in the courthouse, says that he doesn't know anything about this case, walks up to his lawyer and tells him that he actually did it?
What happens if he even goes further and tells him exactly where he buried the body, and that nobody else in the world knows about this?
Where would there be more justice in the world, by having this lawyers stick to his duty to candidly represent this client to the best of his ability and to and like keeping this information to himself, or by having him go immediately to the police and handing them this information?
In fact, we think that if the lawyer chooses the former then he is actively doing everything in his power to help distort justice obviously there's going to be much more justice in like having the body found and the right person accused and like behind bars.
Secondly, second argument, consider consider this example once again.
Now consider it this poor lawyer that is obligated to keep to keep this to himself, and now he has to sleep at night after looking in the eyes of the poor victims parents in court, knowing exactly where their son's body is and then actively lying about it on stand without like any without having any choice in the matter.
We think, firstly that this is just incredibly unfair to like this is an incredibly unfair thing to be expecting lawyers to carry this moral burden, but secondly we we also say that if the entire purpose of this privilege was to allow for the best possible representation in court, then it's not at all clear to us that the majority of lawyers will be able to go on and provide the best service that they can, all the while knowing that they're simply lying and helping a criminal escape responsibility.
In fact, we are kind of hoping that the majority of them like wouldn't be able to do it.
So we don't understand what this privilege achieves in these cases.
So the other side are going to say: " yes, but then clients will simply not trust their lawyers and they wouldn't like reveal anything to them ".
And we say fair enough.
You know what?
It least this way they are not forcing their lawyers to carry a moral burden.
So eventually we say that the best way to go here would be to leave the consideration in the hands of the lawyers.
We're not saying that's lawyers need to be obligated to disclose any piece of information that their clients share with them.
We are even willing to allow lawyers to to like receive an immunity from being prosecuted on the grounds of withholding information.
But like we think that this will also assist in building a certain amount of trust.
But we don't want to legally force the lawyer not to not to come forward.
And then it like what we get is are situations like the example discussed previously.
For all these reasons please propose.