Okay, so what side government are saying is that this program is going to increase the number of heroin users or addicts and that using heroin is bad enough by itself, so that preventing like increased usage outweighs the benefit of preventing diseases like HIV or STD's.
We in opposition oppose both these claims.
This is why, in this speech, I will first show I will first answer directly the previous speaker's arguments and show that the number of people that are going to use heroin as a result of the needle exchange program is very small to practically nonexistent, and then I will argue that even if this is not the case and we will have more usage, this is still worth it because the benefits outweigh the bad sides.
So we heard from tim three explanations as to why there's going to be increased usage of heroin.
First, he tells us that it's that it's just going to be easier to obtain needles.
People who otherwise would have to quit because of the circumstances would have to can go on using.
This is nonsense.
There is no drug addict that the that the sole reason that he isn't using drugs is because he couldn't find a needle.
If it is a normative person or an occasional user, then he would have no problem obtaining a needle in a pharmacy.
If it's a drug addict, a real junkie, then he hangs around all day in areas filled with needles.
It's not a problem for him to find one, and he doesn't care that if the needle is used or not or if it's clean.
That's exactly the problem that this program is trying to deal with.
Accessibility is not really an issue.
We can cross that that one off.
Secondly, we hear that this increases or, sorry, decreases the risk for contracting HIV and therefore, it's less deterring.
Again, this argument isn't relevant for constant users that are already physically addicted and have to get the next fix, no matter what.
These are not people who are able to perform the rational judgment that's required for deterrence to be a factor.
This argument is only relevant for people who are not constant users that maybe are contemplating whether to use it or not for the first or second or third time, but these people are usually very much aware that they need to be careful and use fresh needles.
They are not the one to recycle used needles, and therefore there is no change in the level of deterrence that they experience.
It doesn't get less risky.
This is only true to the people who are wh are recycling needles, and they are way past deterrence at this point.
Lastly, we hear that we are sending a signa.
L from the government that heroin is cool.
Obviously, that's not true.
That's just like saying that by offering, you know, rehab programs, then we are the we are endorsing usage.
Nobody's going to see this and tell himself, " , now I'm going to inject some heroin because the government is all for it. "
That's silly.
But you know what?
Perhaps sending these people a message, a more understanding message, is not such a bad idea.
This actually leads me to my next point.
Why is it okay even if it leads to more users?
So, we say that part of the biggest problem of drug addicts is precisely the way in which they are being shunned by society and perceived as criminals or as dangerous people rather than just seeing them as people who are facing a a problem, a disability, and need help.
Think of how unequally we treat drug addicts and people with cigarette or even alcohol addictions.
We think that this treatment from the society is exactly what causes a heroin user's life to be particularly miserable, and this is also what brings most people from being part-time users to full blown junkies, because they have to hide because of the shame.
They need to do it in secret.
They are scared of seeking out help.
This is how you reach a situation that you are so dependent on the narcotic that you are recycling needles and you are catching diseases.
Now, we haven't really heard from tim why he thinks that dying of aids is less terrible than just injecting.
He just asserted it.
We think exactly the opposite.
Listen, this program enables us to save lives and inspire hope in people who have already lost all glimmer of hope.
Please oppose the motion.