International volunteering brings more harm than good.
Obviously we have nothing against people who choose to devote from their time and volunteer.
And if the comparative would have been between volunteering abroad and not volunteering at all then obviously we'd prefer that people would volunteer.
But the counterfactual that we believe that is true in this debate is that people will volunteer more with local charities and we need to explain why we think that this is better.
Why do we say that this is the true competitive?
Because there exists many like very few people that truly devote their entire lives for helping the weak.
And that is understandable.
Normally people only search for a place to volunteer, which is by the way already a minority of people and not something that can be taken for granted, so normally these people will focus on one purpose that they see is especially important.
This means that whoever ends up traveling to the other side of the world for a year in which he volunteers with children in africa for example, in most cases once that year is over he'll be returning home feeling gratified and satisfied as he well should and move on to think of himself, his career, his family, and his future.
However on the other hand, people that choose to volunteer at local charities like, once a week, closer to home, in a way that doesn't necessarily force them to go through great sacrifices or stop the routine of their life, their day to day lives.
Often these people stick around for many many years.
Exactly because this is not such a great bother as like compared to going off and living in a tent in conditions that are radically different from the comfort of your own home.
So why do we prefer the model of volunteering once a week across many years over the model of one intensive year in which like you do concentrated volunteering?
Firstly, we assume that either way we are talking about good deeds that if it weren't for me there would be nobody else to step in and do instead of me.
And that is simply true because unfortunately there is always a need like there's always more need for help than actual help offered.
Secondly, we believe that all the charities and all the volunteer work that I could possibly do are equally important.
Even if we accept that the situation of the needy in africa is worse than the situation of the needy in the west, in absolute terms, eventually a hungry family is a hungry family and a sick child is a sick child.
And if we can do something about it, if we can cheer up a sick child or somehow get food like a warm meal for a hungry family, then we have done something equally wonderful.
Lastly, and most importantly, in many types of volunteer work there is great advantage in tenure.
This is true both in cases where experience is needed in order to be able to perform your volunteer work more efficiently would like more complicated cases like medical assistance and so on, but also in simpler cases where there is simply a lot of like importance to creating a long term connection with the population to which we assist.
Think about cases of make creating an emotional bond with orphaned children for example.
What happens with these international volunteering is that often by the time that you that you gain experience and start and starting to be good at what you do, then your time is up and someone entirely new steps in.
Or, that by the time that that the true emotional bond is being formed between you and the local population, you're forced to leave.
And that is obviously difficult for both sides but especially to the people that again feel abandoned.
For all these reasons we say that international volunteering brings more harm than good.