The monarchy system is archaic no doubt, and there are plenty of things in it that don't seem natural or rational to us today.
One hundred percent true but history and tradition matter to people.
Symbolism matters and the abolition of the monarchy especially in today's turbulent times, might lead to a national crisis of identity with pernicious repercussions.
Before we turn to argue this, some refutation to the previous speech.
So the first thing that we hear about is the dangers in the line of succession.
Like queen elizabeth is great and all but who knows how her successors are going to be and how dangerous it is for democracy to have such a like even if it's only in a potential concentration of powers within one family and I assume that this argument is true in a very hypothetical level but in practice it seems that like this concern from abuse of power by the hands of the british monarch isn't a serious one.
At the very least it's not more serious than the concern of such a possibility taking place under a constitutional democracy.
It's not only that the current royal family is mild mannered and benevolent.
It's that the public has become much more aware and critical of what's going on.
It's literally impossible to imagine britain slipping into a totalitarian system because it's obvious that once there comes a monarch that tries to deny people the basic rights, or start declaring wars randomly, or breaking parliaments on a whim, he or she will be ousted in a matter of days and monarchs notice moreover, we think that the risk of embarking on a slippery slope that like gradually leads to more and more authoritarianism, is just as relevant if not more relevant to constitutional democracies nowadays.
We see the emergence of authoritarian authoritarian leaders in turkey, in hungary, hell even in the united states to an extent.
So the proposition from side government doesn't really solve this risk.
The second thing that we hear is that there are like it's very costly the monarchy is costly.
Well like we say that a lot of leaders in presidential democracies also spend huge sums on sustaining lavish lifestyles and like that's unfortunate but not unique to a monarchy.
Eventually we're not talking about unbearable sums to the british economy and either way they are still going to spend a lot of of money on maintaining like the buckingham palace.
Even without a monarchy it's not like we're going to demolish it tomorrow.
Thirdly they they ask what's the point in a monarchy?
Beyond being a tradition, what is the justification?
Well if we show that the damage of abolishing the monarchy outweighs the benefits, then for us this is a sufficient justification.
So what's going to happen in britain the day after it like the abolition of the monarchy?
We haven't heard a word about it from hayah.
What's obvious that's going to happen is that a lot of people will be mad.
The monarchy is extremely popular today within the british people.
We argue that especially now as england faces rising nationalist sentiment that has already led to the colossal mistake that's called breksit, the last thing that we want is to give people further cause to feel that their national identity is under attack.
The monarchy is the core tenet of the average british person's national pride.
That's what singles out his country from other countries and there's no doubt that abolishing it will provide additional ammunition for a far right populous to come and say look at how these guys in the european union or whatever, want to erase your heritage and force you to give it up and so on and so forth.
This means trouble.
This means trouble for immigration, for refugees, this means trouble for international trade, for the economy as a whole.
Clearly the damage the damages here are way bigger than the existing minor damages that britain suffers from under the status quo of the monarchy.
So for all these reasons, please oppose.