The vow of celibacy should be abandoned.
Sex and, more importantly, intimacy and companionship are basic human needs.
Demanding that one simply give them up is both cruel and often unsustainable.
We'll have two arguments in this speech: first, repressing basic needs doesn't make them go away, and what happens is the result.
And second, the effects of lifting this ban on the religious community.
First arguments: our claim is that celibacy goes against human nature.
Why?
First of all, and most simply, having sex is a physical survival need.
The explanation is an evolutionary one, people are programmed for survival and as part of this innate programming we want to leave a lineage of descendants behind us.
And so evolution has imprinted in us, in a sense, the desire for sexual intercourse.
Of course there are exceptions to this rule and you know asexual people but there's no good reason to just assume that all priests are necessarily asexual.
Next we can look at marriage.
And here we say two things, a, marriage is originally meant to institutionalize sexual activity and b, it also answers another emotional need for companionship.
Happiness is only real real when shared with others.
And going through life without the sort of intimate relationship in which you can share everything you go through in life with someone, your thoughts, your emotions, your darkest secrets, this turns people lonely and miserable.
So because these are such basic needs ingrained into our DNA, we think that repressing them, no matter how unholy or sinful we convince ourselves that these things are, very often leads to them uncontrollably outbursting at some later stage.
We see the results of this with scandals regarding catholic priests.
We shouldn't wonder why it is that child molestation is such a prevalent thing there.
It's not likely to reach a conclusion that so many of these priests are just sexually perverse, right?
So as awful as it sounds, we can understand how their situation has posed unbearable temptations to them.
Had we allowed priests to have wives and conduct intimate relations, we would for sure see a decrease in child molestation.
Second argument, the effects on the religious community.
So it's important to note that there's absolutely no explicit requirement in scripture to make vows of celibacy.
This is merely a religious custom that became common along the years and stems from this view that any matter of the flesh stands in direct contrast to divine matters of holiness.
Priests represent the spiritual link between the divine and the materialistic and therefore they must abstain from whatever activity that interferes with their purity.
However if we understand that sexual needs are something that everyone has, just like the need to eat or breathe and that repressing it only intensifies it and doesn't make it go away, then we are led to the conclusion that the very logic that led to celibacy in the first place ought lead us to abolish it.
Because only by allowing an orderly outlet of these urges can the clergymen become truly available to devote themselves to what's holy and not get distracted by matters of the flesh.
And so this might come as a shock initially because people did grow accustomed to the fact that priests can't marry.
And it's always hard to change traditions, but as time goes by we say that there's no reason why this shouldn't seem natural.
Just like it's natural that a priest must also eat and drink even though it's such a corporal, materialistic thing.
Moreover we say that in comparison to a status quo in which every now and then we hear of priests molesting children and the devastating shock-waves that this sends through the religious community, on balance, if these ceases like if these cases will cease to happen, this will have a very positive effect on the community.
So for all of these reasons we're very proud to propose.