Before getting to the arguments themselves, we just like to remind everyone that we have already tried prohibiting alcohol before, and all of us know that that didn't go very well.
So, we think that there is a huge burden on side government that they cannot conveniently ignore to explain to us why is it that today, when alcohol is becoming even more integral part of our culture and our day to day lives, they think that this is even going to work and not have catastrophic results.
Next, let's quickly refute some of the arguments that james has brought up.
So first thing he says, is that third parties are getting harmed by consumption of alcohol.
Firstly, he talks about how this harms people's health and then society has to pay the price in like terms of more expensive healthcare and so on, and so we ask, well where is the limit james?
Are we going to force people to do regular sports?
Are we going to force people on a very healthy diet?
There's a huge difference between a direct harm to society and an indirect harm to society.
And if in every action that I do, I would have to consider the ultimate implications on a macro economic sense to society and stop doing everything that negatively affects it, then I would have to limit myself to, like, we would have to limit many things that people like, starting from hamburgers and like reaching cellphones.
We say that's just not a reasonable argument.
Then he talks about eh drunk drivers, and he says it's true that there is a law against driving under the influence but it's hard to enforce.
We say that, that's just like saying that we should ban kitchen knives because we weren't able to prevent all of the stabbing incidence.
Then he talks about physical abuse in women and children, and again, obviously the abuse itself is forbidden by law, and we think that there are many other sources or elements that have contributed to people that are being abusive, we simply do not agree that alcohol itself is to blame here.
Nextly, he speaks about the asymmetry of information between like the the one that manufactures alcohol and the one that consumes it.
And he says that people don't understand that alcohol is dangerous and that the manufacturers are taking advantage of this.
Well, give people more information like you do with cigarettes when you put warnings on the packets.
We don't hear any explanation from james why is this inherently the case that there there will always be a lack of information and we think that it's probably because such explanation just doesn't exist.
And lastly he talks about consistency, he doesn't want to prioritize one lifestyle over another.
And we say great, we're all for it, we're all for consistency and in our opinion, marijuana needs to be legal as well.
Onto our constructive points, which is alcohol as liberating tool from the yoke of social conformity.
Look, it's true that alcohol has its negative sides but in a debate you have to be comparative.
The great thing that comes with alcohol stems exactly from the way in which it it's blurs our inhibitions, because it makes us forget for a minute, this inner voice that tell us oh no, what are people going to say.
And we say that in a society that often polices its members to conform to norms, without the ability to truly criticize them or reflect upon them, we think that that is crucial.
Think about the gay kid in the closet in a conservative community, that is forced to hide his identity and suffer from it, during the course of his life.
We say that to him and to many others like him one glass of whiskey can make the difference between liberation and ongoing suffering.
That is also the reason that alcohol has played a lead role in all types of social revolutions in history, because people were able to, for a second, shut down their urge to conform.
Government wants to take all of that away from us.
Please oppose.