We should protect endangered species.
Never in the billions of years of the earth's existence has there been one species that has brought, all by itself, to the extinction of so many other species as us homo sapiens.
We've been destroying entire ecosystems and altering the natural course of events for thousands of years without even realizing or noticing.
Now that we finally do have the knowledge of the extent of the damage we have caused and continue to cause and the knowledge of what measures can be taken to prevent this damage, the very minimum we must do is try and protect the next species that's about to go extinct from disappearing.
There are two approaches or two views that we can go by here.
The first is the humanocentric approach that says that only human lives and effects on human society matter.
The second approach does assign moral significance to other types of species, be it plants or animals.
Now, obviously, if we adopt the latter approach, then the motion should pass.
If the lives of an endangered type of tiger matter, then we should stop poachers from hunting them down for their fur.
If the existence of a certain type of plant is of inherent significance and we can take measures to make sure it doesn't cease to exist, it follows that we should.
Thus, we are now going to focus only on convincing followers of the humanocentric approach why they should too protect endangered species, and there are two separate reasons why they should.
The first is the potential knowledge that can be gained from studying other species.
The second reason is the unforeseeable dangerous consequences of messing with ecochambers that we still don't understand.
Let's explain the first reason.
Every species has a unique set of characteristics.
This is why we call it in a particular name.
This is why it's a particular species.
Those characteristics can either be behavioral or genetic.
Humankind owes much of its progression to discoveries that were made by observing the characteristics of different kinds of plants and animals.
Think about it.
We experiment on lab animals to reach conclusions that apply to human beings.
We have learned that certain herbs have healing powers and we can produce drugs and medicine from them, and so on and so forth.
The thing is we keep getting better and more sophisticated at it, and there's still so much we don't know.
Imagine that an endangered type of fish can potentially hold the answer to cure alzheimer's, but it will perish due to fishing before humans have the chance to uncover this.
This tragic scenario isn't unthinkable.
Even species that seem totally useless with the current knowledge that we possess can prove useful in the future after technological or scientific advancements.
But as soon as an entire species goes extinct, that's it.
We lost our chance forever.
Now let's go on to the even scarier reason.
Different species that form ecochambers and ecosystems are often interconnected in various complicated ways that we may not always fully understand.
Evolution made sure that most things are where they are and how they are for a reason.
So it's highly possible that a seemingly meaningless seaweed going extinct might cause a chain reaction with horrendous consequences because a certain type of fish that feeds only off of it, off of this weed, will also go extinct, and then all the dead floating fish will now pollute the waters, and this will lead to the extinction of the rest of the fish in that lake.
And so now the fishermen who live nearby have nothing to eat, and the drinking water of the entire village are contaminated and, you know, this causes a horrible virus in town, and I can go on and on and on.
I think that by now the point is clear is clear enough that it would be within our best interest to try and preserve the delicate equilibrium that we have as best we can.
Please propose.