Babies who are born with severe disorders or defects will have to go through an incredibly hard life, not to mention the hardships that they that their families go through.
If we have the knowledge and the ability to prevent all that suffering, not using it would be morally irresponsible and that's putting it gently.
With all due respect for the religious approach, according to which we cannot and must not intervene with the ways of nature or with gods intentions, we simply don't think that there is much use in arguing with it.
So we are going to assume, for the sake of this debate that things like abortions or invitro fertilizations are things that opposition doesn't have a principaled problem with.
So what we're going to do in this speech is to present first the argument that we consider to be the strongest possible op line in this debate and then answer it: that being the destructive effects that this procedure has on the efforts of the disabled community to fit in in society.
This argument explains that processes like prenatal diagnosis and selection are strengthening the existing the common perception in society of of disabilities as a mistake of nature, as something that deserves pity rather than just having people see it as a different and challenging, yet not less worthy, form of living.
While we can truly sympathize we believe that there is still not enough damage here too outweigh the the benefit.
First of all we have to distinguish between conditions like being blind or deaf and between conditions that are truly undisputedly horrible, like serious mental retardation or all sorts of terminal diseases.
Realistically we we believe that people are going to use this technology to prevent themselves from both the former and the latter's cases.
And so first of all one can argue that the amounts of pain that's being prevented in the more serious and severe cases is by itself enough of a justification.
But we say more than that.
We say that more over while we do agree that the best way to help people with disabilities is indeed by by strengthening the understanding and the social acceptance to those conditions we believe that there is still a a huge difference between educating society to accept the other and between preventing this treatment.
Most people see in their child the most important thing in life to them.
And it's only natural that they should wish for him the very best possible life, the most convenient life without the ongoing challenges that come with a disability.
It's it's sort of like we care a lot about orphan kids but we still allow parents to to bring to the world children of their own and we don't force parents to adopt orphan children.
The social struggle for the acceptance of special populations is an important struggle and we are all for it but not at the cost of willfully sending innocent families down the path of dealing with a disability.
Please propose