We should privatize the united states social security.
Firstly, let's talk about the myth of social security.
Back in the thirties, before the social security program was first enacted, people were supporting themselves at old age by the money they had earned like previously in life or just had some sort of private insurance or pension scheme.
Back then, there was no real public demand for a shift toward centralized forced social security program.
There wasn't a real need for it.
It took a heavy public campaign, from the government itself, that labeled social security as a government-based insurance scheme, but social security is nothing like an insurance scheme.
There's almost no correlation between how much you pay and how much you're entitled to receive.
It's more like a bad tax system with an odd way of trying to distribute welfare.
Why?
Because what you're entitled to is not a function of your income or your social status, but rather of whether an accident occurred to you or not, what crisis has the field that you work in went through.
Taking into account that we already have the tax system and the medicare and medicaid systems that can much better take care of the job of redistribution, social security is yet another huge tax that interferes with the market and with people's incentives, and we don't see the need for it.
Also, if you if you decide to retire, no matter how wealthy you are, you deserve you deserve benefits.
But if you reached the retirement age and decide to continue working, no matter how unwealthy you are, not only do you not deserve any of it, but you also have to pay taxes on what you're earning to support others, who are entitled.
So bottom line: there's no actual benefit from allowing the government to take care of insuring you financially.
This is just like this turns into a very weird and unjust and inefficient way to redistribute money.
Secondly, we think that the current social security program just isn't sustainable.
It is inevitable that social security will soon be impossible to go on.
This is because the baby boomers born after world war two are approaching retirement and, due to the aging of the population, which leads to the fact that the population entitled to receive funds, get to live longer, which means it's going to cost more, and fewer working people have to carry the burden of funding it.
This means that the payments will have to go up, biting evermore into working people's hard-earned income and creating further disencouragement for employers to hire employees and for employees to go and and work harder.
How does privatized insurance plans solve all of this?
Well, we say that if you are free to just go and seek out your own insurance plan, then then, you know, people can truly voluntarily enter a scheme which is fair, which gives them according to what it takes from them.
And as far as the poor, who aren't able to afford these privatized insurance schemes, if the opposition side is worried, we say that we needn't worry because they can't afford to pay for social security today in the status quo as well, and what happens is the government takes care of it for them.
They don't pay anything and yet they still are entitled to receive benefits.
We have no problem with this continuing also tomorrow, with the government securing , you know, livelihoods of the poor or of of the poorest.
We have no problem with this.
So for all of these reasons, please propose.