We should cancel the social security tax.
By this we do not mean that we would abolish the social security program altogether, but simply that we will make it optional and allow people who so choose to opt out of it unlike taxes which are of course mandatory.
Whoever opts out of paying social security tax forgoes his claim for social security benefits in the future obviously.
I will have two arguments in this speech.
The first is on how there is no justification for imposing this tax.
And the second is for how this will help in solving the upcoming crisis of social security.
So to the first argument: no justification for imposing the social security tax.
The american nation was founded on the belief that there can be no taxation without representation.
Well in the case of social security tax, we believe that this is exactly what's happening.
You are obligated to pay a large chunk of your income to help support other people's pension.
This is money that by definition isn't meant to help serve you in any way.
The benefits that you will be entitled to one day are taken from other young employees.
So you don't get to choose how much it is that you wish to pay.
You also don't get to choose how much it is that you will be entitled to in the future.
This system leaves you with no choice on how to save money for your own future, but for one option that is pre-decided for you by the federal government.
That is exactly the meaning of no representation.
We believe that each person is best capable to do the math for himself and decide for himself just how much money he would like to put aside and save for a rainy day and in what terms.
When we impose one system on everyone we are inherently forcing people that, for their own reasons, would prefer to spend their hard earned money that and now they must save it.
And we also decide for people who would like to invest their money but would like to invest it in other ways, in alternative investment paths, like buying real estate or invest in stock markets, or whatever.
We force them to take a large chunk of their own money that will now be unavailable for such investments in the way that they wish to invest.
When we allow for an opt out, we still let you invest in the federal social security problem program if you so choose.
And we believe that many people will because it is relatively very safe compared with other forms of investment.
But we let every citizen decide and plan out his own future for himself.
Second argument, so we say that this will help deal with the upcoming crisis of social security.
Many experts are now in agreement that the current social security program is unsustainable.
With life expectancy on the rise there are there are much more people who are entitled to receive benefits from social security.
And with the drop in birth rates there is less and less money flowing in from young employees to fund these payments.
This is not a trend that is likely to change anytime soon.
Now we believe that by turning social security into a non-mandatory program this problem will be solved.
Because many people will choose to opt out and find alternative investment paths.
And so the amounts payable by this program will drop.
And with a smaller amount of people listed it will be much more manageable and the federal government will be able to make sure that everyone gets what they deserve and no one is being left out.
So for all these reasons please propose the motion.