The one-child policy brought more good than harm.
In this debate, we don't intend to defend or deal with horrific phenomena that happened in china, such as forced abortions or killing of female babies.
These are atrocious and undefendable, but not a necessary outcome of the one-child policy.
We are totally in favor of educating and enforcing a smart use of protective measures and to provide abortion services when and if needed in order to make sure this isn't a common thing.
The sanction that we refer to as to breaking this policy is a heavy and deterring fine, according to one's level of income, but nothing more pervasive than that.
We believe that the heart of this debate deals with the question of whether it's justified for the law to intervene in decisions regarding the size of one's family.
We'll have three we have two arguments, sorry.
A: what constitutes a justified law, and b: why slowing down the birth rate is essential for the survival of the chinese society.
So, first argument.
We believe that every law is essentially a crime against the citizens that have to abide by it.
Somebody decided for these citizens, without asking their opinion, that something's forbidden and if they do so, they'll be severely punished.
The law is therefore, by definition, evil, only sometimes it's a necessary evil.
The rationale behind the law system is that even though the laws are restrictive, without them we'll be a lot more restricted.
Even though the law limits my actions by forbidding me to hit other people, for instance, this is what guarantees that I am protected from the beatings of others.
Therefore, the relevant question is never the level of intervention.
A justified law isn't a law that intervenes as less as possible, but one that brings upon a better situation, in terms of freedoms, than without it.
Without a doubt, the one-child policy is massively intervening in the lives of the citizens.
But we need to note that in in special circumstances, we're willing to severely harm people's freedoms to serve the better good.
For instance, by tapping phones and surveilling terrorists, we are infringing their privacy rights for the sake of national security, and we think that that is fine.
Bottom line: the mere fact that this policy is intrusive doesn't automatically render it unjustified.
We have to examine whether there's a bit there's a big enough utility from this policy that can justify it, and that's exactly what we're gonna do now.
So, why is this essential for the chinese society?
Like most populous countries in the world, the booming of the population in the chinese society in the previous century has risen to practically unsustainable levels.
Unchecked and uncontrolled, the birth rate kept on rapidly growing exponentially, leading to devastating outcomes.
In the macro level, the job market was flooded.
There were simply too many people joining the market all at once, all the time, in order for there to be sufficient employment for everyone.
Public services came crashing down.
Schools couldn't keep up with the amount of children.
Hospitals didn't have enough beds, not to mention doctors or medicines.
Environmentally speaking, the density created huge ecological problems and a heavy pollution that exacerbated the health problems, and so the overload overload on hospitals increased further.
This is a vicious cycle.
In the micro level, millions of families became subjected to severe poverty, because there were too many mouths to feed and too little food or resources to take care of that, mostly in rural areas.
The one-child policy that came into effect in the late seventies was able to, like to an extent, reverse this trend in chinese birth rate.
Alongside the economic reforms china has led, this brought three or four decades of prosperity that lifted many families from the circle of poverty.
Had it not been for the one-child policy, would have been extremely difficult for china to avoid the economic disaster that it was trapped in and, in all likelihood, it would have just crumbled under a crushing debt.
In conclusion, had chinese citizens been allowed to bring to the world as many children as they like, chances are these children would have been born to pretty miserable lives and, at the same time, sentence their entire families to a life of poverty and eventually dooming the entire chinese society.
All in all, given the extraordinary circumstances in china, we believe that this policy leads to the maximization of freedoms and therefore, we should support it.