We should ban beauty contests.
To an innocent bystander that has never in his life heard of beauty contests or knew of their existence and will accidentally just happen to stumble upon such an event taking place, this will seem more or less like this: a bunch of young and way-too-skinny girls dancing around half naked in front of cameras and in in front of a panel, that consists mostly of men that will later grade them and rank them based on their appearance alone and will award the winner with a small tiara.
We do not understand how such a thing can still take place in two thousand and seventeen.
We don't see literally any unique advantage or any good thing that comes out of these contests and the harms, on the other hand, to women's effort to be taken seriously and to overcome the sexism that so many women are still suffering from in society are humongous.
So I'm going to focus on two of these harms.
Firstly, on objectification and its implications on sexual harassment.
So, there's no way around this.
Beauty pageants are a clear form of objectification.
We think that we need to recognize that objectification remains one of the more serious problems that women deal with in society today.
The struggle for formal equality that started with the suffragettes is all but concluded.
Sure, there are still issues with employment and equal pay, but the data points to an ongoing trend of improvement.
There are more women in higher education institutes than men today, more and more women politicians are being elected to lead governments, with the unfortunate exception of the united states, but and so on and so on.
But what remains pretty much constant, or even maybe like becomes worse with time, is the amount of cases of sexual harassment towards women.
Now, true enough, this is probably due to the fact that more and more women today decide to come out and talk about this, and not due to it being like worse than it used to be.
But still, we can see that in this front, there's clearly still a very long way to go until we can say that this is a problem that belongs to the pages of history.
So we believe that this thing is directly related to the fact that it's still perceived as legitimate and perfectly normal to treat women as mere objects in a way that cannot be said that is true to men as well.
If society makes men understand that the most important thing about a woman is whether she's physically attractive or not, then it's going to be incredibly hard for them to see past that.
And that's exactly what's going on when they watch this glamorous ceremony that deals with rating women's looks.
The more this immediate link between seeing a woman and feeling physically attracted gets stronger, the harder it gets to control your impulses, on one hand, and the less you care about this woman's feelings and and like having respect towards her on the other hand, because after all this is just an object, right, that's meant to amuse me.
And so we get sexual harassments.
Second argument is about strengthening the model of beauty.
So we think that the model of beauty is a particularly ugly thing, pun intended.
It's being infiltrated into our consciousness, subliminally, without paying attention, through commercials, through hollywood movies, and in a very blunt and direct way through beauty contests.
It sets incredibly high and unreasonable standards for women to meet and leaves behind it a trail of scarred women for no good reason and to no fault of their own.
Women who see bees contests also internalize the message and understand that in order to be successful or or happy, they should, first of all, always focus on their exterior.
This thing harms all women.
Those who weren't blessed with the physique or the bone structure or the skin color of supermodels are forced to carry around this sense of inferiority, sometimes even guilt.
Those who are blessed with like fine looks also get screwed because it would be incredibly hard for them to step outside of the role that society has, you know, destined to them and to prove their worth regardless of appearance.
This failure in in perception is already deeply rooted, both with men and women, but there are extensive attempts to try and change people's perceptions and to educate children from a young age to start thinking differently.
These attempts are being aggressively curtailed by things such as beauty contests.
The damage clearly outweighs the benefits.
Please propose.