So eitan gets philosophical and tells us that time is a fluid human construct in that it can be played with.
We'll go with him.
It's just that daylight saving time is exactly that.
It's playing with time.
Now, we're also accepting that the main question in this debate is under what kind of world is it going to be less inconvenient and less annoying?
Now all that's left to do is to compare between the status quo, where we apply daylight savings time, and eitan's proposition of just keeping the time constant and playing with the work hours.
We argue that the status quo, albeit not perfect, is clearly preferable to what side government is is asking us to do, purely on basis of convenience.
So eitan tells us, " what's the problem? "
Simply play with the hours and , you know, divide the year up to seasons and decide that in each season, the working day begins and ends in a different time.
Now this is what he he calls the elegant solution.
As my mom always says, " when something sounds too simple to work, then it's probably because it is. "
Not what eitan didn't think of is that it would require perfect coordination on a huge scale for his solution to actually work.
It's not enough that my boss would tell me: listen, in these months, come to come work an hour earlier.
I also need my son's school to announce that in in the exact same dates, school starts an hour earlier and that I need that the buses will match themselves in the hours and, you know, the routes an hour backwards, meaning I need everything to start working an hour earlier.
I need the coffee place where I buy buy my morning coffee and bagels to start working an hour earlier, and so on.
We we believe that the picture is starting to get clearer now in the sense of affecting international businesses and trade and, you know, calculating the hour gaps.
We haven't really helped that much since I will still have to remember when the new york offices, for instance, are like when is the time where they are when they open at six AM and when is the time where they open at seven AM, and that's still a recipe for a lot of little misunderstandings and a lot of nerves.
Where does all of this analysis take us?
It takes us to the realization that the only way in which this solution could actually work and not create a lot of mismatches between different functions in the market and so on is that's we like we need all of the country to collectively and in an organized way, without any exceptions, declare that we are moving the working hours of everyone an hour backwards or an hour forwards.
Now, pay attention that in this situation, it is more or less identical to a situation in which we collectively just decide to move the clock an hour backwards or an or an hour forwards.
Only if we compare between the two , you know, with one situation I can just remember that, you know, the the local clinic for instance is always open until six six PM, but if I start playing with the hours, like side government is suggesting, then I would have to always remember what time it is, like what type of season it is, and calculate whether this time the local clinic is going to be open until five or six or seven.
So, all in all, it sounds like a more irritating world, a less convenient world, so by side government's own criteria, we win the debate, and we call you to oppose this motion.