Throughout tim's entire speech, he deals with how global warming requires a drastic change from the way in which we consume energy in the status quo, and he does take a lot of time to explain this all.
But sadly, this is entirely uncontested and therefore not a clash in this debate.
We agree, but the relevant question, the only relevant question, is how is this change supposed to look like and whether focusing specifically on wind power production does more harm or more good.
To this question, tim only dedicates the very last minute of his speech.
What we hear in this regard from him is a: that wind power is a clean and renewable energy that doesn't cause too much environmental damage, b: that the costs of wind power production our high today but if we further exploit it, it will drive down the costs, and c: that it's preferable to solar power and nuclear power.
We find all three of these claims problematic.
Let's examine them closely and understand why.
So, firstly, wind power is renewable and clean.
Well, it is renewable and perhaps relatively clean, of course, it's not perfect for the environment, and wind farms do adversely affect the wildlife and natural habitats and scenery of wherever they are located.
We can expect that we can accept that it's relatively clean, but by no means is it the only clean energy alternative or not even the cleanest, case in point: solar power and water power.
But even if it were the cleanest, most renewable kind of energy, what tim neglects to talk about is whether it's effective enough so that we can afford to so heavily rely on it.
The fact of the matter is that being clean and renewable are indeed very important traits, but they come second to feasibility and sustainability.
Wind farms simply don't have and will never probably have the capacity to create enough energy to satisfy civilizations' ever-growing need for more of it.
Why?
Because the wind isn't and will never be as strong as a steam that that runs on fuel or on nuclear energy.
We would have to get the entire oceans and mountains and forests crammed full of wind farms, at huge, huge costs, for it to maybe be somehow enough.
But then tim says, " , but if we invest in research and development, it will drive costs down. "
Except no, it wouldn't though, unless tim has plans to develop some new way to create more wind at greater speed artificially around the globe, which reach, by the way, will be also disastrous for the entire global climate probably.
The point is that no matter how sophisticated we would get, it will never be enough to really satisfy demand.
Obviously, we're not against setting some more wind farms, but we understand this motion and the definition given by side government to mean that we would now put all of our most like we would put all or most of our weight on wind energy, and that's just a bad investment.
So, what is the proper alternative?
Tim talks about solar power and nuclear power.
There's also water power, as I mentioned.
We believe that it's mostly these three that should be further explored.
, tim is right that solar power isn't efficient twenty-four seven, but so isn't wind power.
That's just false.
There are entire seasons, months, during which there's hardly enough wind velocity to produce anything.
Solar energy is also clean and renewable.
And we believe that it's more cost efficient since it isn't meant to spin turbines in the same way that wind farms are, but it's based on directly converting light and PV cells into electric power.
Water power does work on turbines, but it's much, much more powerful than wind in terms of velocity and pressure.
Think about it.
What's harder: walking against a strong wind or swimming against a strong current?
Of course, that the latter.
Nuclear energy is perhaps not renewable or clean, but it has incredible capacity to produce huge amounts of energy, and there's still so much to explore and improve our technology in this field.
So for all of these reasons, please oppose.