There's one thing that the previous speaker neglects to tell us about state-run lotteries and that is that the the participation sum that people have to pay is very low and that matters, actually, because it mitigates a lot of the harms that they talk about.
So, the previous speaker talks about how like he talks about drawing in addicted people and how this takes away money from the poor and so on and so forth.
But think about it for a second.
How many people have you heard of that have gone truly bankrupt because of addiction to the lottery?
There are no such people.
Like even if for years, I have like been participating in a lottery every single week, yes, this does add up to a pretty significant amount, but the fact is that most people spend much more on cigarettes than they do on their weekly lottery tickets.
So, true, it's usually not the top ten percent that are like the base clientele of lottery and but we need to be honest, we need to to say that these are not homeless people or or like people that are starving for bread as well.
We're talking about hardworking people that are hoping to turn their life around, but it's very unlikely that they will reach a situation where they have to sell their property in order to afford their next lottery ticket.
So we need to put things at the proper proportions.
So what's interesting to us about the speech of the previous speaker is that he tells us that he is not intending to ban casinos or private lotteries and to me that is confusing, because the the harms that he mentions happen in a much more significant way as a result of those things.
In casinos, there are actually people that can lose thousands of dollars in a in like a few single hours.
This just cannot happen with the lottery.
There's also far less supervision.
People can get into serious debts that are crippling to them and to their families, and often get tangled up with like folks from the underworld and the and the mafia.
All of these things don't concern the government too much.
So, in fact, we think that it's government run lotteries that might help people to avoid ever having to reach a situation where they turn to these casinos, especially if we're talking about people who love to gamble and might even have an inclination to get addicted to it.
We say that lottery provides for them an outlet that satiates this urge to gamble.
If we keep casinos running but cancel the lottery, then it's quite obvious that whoever faces gambling issues will immediately turn to casinos, where things can end up far worse for them.
Regarding the point that was brought up on how this takes away money from the poor and gives only some of it back to them, we actually think that like we disagree.
We think that that the lottery is quite a nice model.
Again, we would remind that we are talking about a like relatively very like a symbolic sum that's being spread upon millions of people, but then every single week, there is one man that gets to win the jackpot and his life gets like he gets his life completely turned around.
In addition, we are not discounting the fact that this gives hope to a lot of people that have it rough in life.
So even if most chances are against them, this still gives them something to hold onto by the end of a long working week.
We disagree with side government that this is an irrational model or an like or that it does no use to anybody.
It doesn't benefit the poor.
We say that the emotional benefits that they get from having some like glimmer of hope, and we say that the fact that every single week there's one person that's will never be poor anymore in life, we say that these things matter.
So for all these reasons, oppose the motion.