This has to be said in the loudest and clearest way possible.
In side government's world, I can innocently walk around in the schoolyard when, out of nowhere, the school bully comes up to me and starts shoving me around, and by simply trying to defend myself and shoving him back, it just so happens, of course, that the teacher is just passing by, and now I am facing suspension, without being given the slightest opportunity to state my case.
This is what they call fair.
This is absurd.
The first argument that we hear from the previous speaker is that other forms of punishments are probably going to be random and even discriminatory, because they will be based on teachers' or principals' assessments, and they tend to blame black children more than they do white children.
So, first of all, I am really not convinced that this is true, such a blunt and easily visible form of racism sounds a bit extreme to me.
But, let's say that it is true.
If it truly is the matter, then surely no tolerance policy will only make things worse because when this is all or nothing, with suspension or expulsion at stake, it is very likely that teachers that tends to favor certain children over others to such an extent will simply turn a blind eye to cases that are less convenient for them and will only go through with punishments in cases that are more convenient, meaning for every fight that breaks between white pupils, according to james's logic, the teachers or the principal will find ways to overlook the entire thing, as if it didn't happen, but with black pupils, it's going to be immediate, uncompromising expulsion.
Secondly, he says something about now, because there is no way to exercise judgment, then the punishments will become less severe, you know, with the example of writing on the on the blackboard a hundred times, like bart simpson.
This is odd because obviously this completely contradicts the next argument that deals with deterrence.
It is very simple: sometimes we need harsh punishments.
We simply need to, you know, exercise judgment while we use those punishments, so less cases of unjust punishments will occur.
Then james talks about how punishments in the status quo aren't deterring enough to the, you know, cunning children that know that they can rely on their charm to get out of trouble.
And I think that it's just very seldom the case that it is particularly the children that cause so much trouble that are the charming kids that the teachers admire, like james describes.
Let's not be naive.
The teachers spend hours each day with the children, and they are not idiots.
They know exactly who are the violent or problematic kids and who are the, you know, more nerdy children that will never hurt a fly.
They are also quite capable of talking things over with the children involved and understanding exactly who needs to be blamed.
These usually aren't exactly the toughest cases in the world to crack.
So we needn't insult the intelligence of the teachers that and say that they will so often be duped by their pupils.
So, yes, very rarely naughty children might walk away from punishments.
Fine.
For such a thing, do we really need such a drastic measure of punishing everyone who is somehow involved automatically, without allowing anyone to defend himself or explain himself?
Obviously, this way we're going to get a lot more injustice.
And lastly, james tells us that this is this way we can remove the troublemakers, and this would be better for all the good students that are harmed by this.
No, I'm sorry, this is off-clash.
Problematic pupils need to be removed and suspended, but if they are truly so mischievious and they are truly causing eighty percent of the problems, as james says, then even after exercising judgment, we can still take care of them appropriately.
There is no good reason here to mask our eyes and shut our ears and skip the part where we try and understand exactly what happened and whose fault this is.
Clearly you should oppose.