We should increase internet censorship.
Okay, so hopefully all of us agree that some websites should be banned, like drug trafficking or human trafficking websites, and all of us will also agree that some websites should never be banned or censored, like wikipedia for instance.
We argue specifically for the censoring of forums or platforms used by hateful groups such as extreme racist or anti-semitic or homophobic groups, some of the more extreme alt-right movement websites and so on.
This obviously holds also to social networks networks like facebook or twitter or reddit or youtube, that we think should ban outright hateful speech posted to it and so on.
So, my main point is about radicalization.
We need to recognize that speech and expression has moved from the streets, or television, or newspapers, to the internet.
Now this can be a great thing that allows a stage that connects between people from all over the world and all of that.
But it also attracts some really really negative forms of expression sometimes.
And this happens because it is so much easier to sit next to your computer with the protection of the four walls of your room, and say really horrific things about other people, than actually daring to say it right to people's faces out in the street, where you get immediate feedback from the expressions of other people, or that you feel maybe more physically vulnerable and so on.
And the thing is that once it's allowed to go on, hateful speech attracts more hateful speech that all of a sudden becomes insightful comments.
And before we know it it might also leads to violence.
Because words matter.
And like if I'm allowed to say something, then the distance from actually acting upon it and doing something about it becomes smaller.
The other side will want to argue a sort of black market logic.
That if we censor expression online, then it will move to closed secretive forums, where it will only intensify because there's no one to criticize it, they want to talk to us about like a free market of ideas, well sadly it just doesn't work like that.
First of all, good speech does not always moderate or trump bad speech.
Key word here being trump.
All of us know that, especially in online discussions, it is often the loudest most provocative voices that get the the biggest exposure and support.
Secondly, we see we think that most people aren't really going to join some secretive cult-like website on dark net, or will bother to go to an abandoned warehouse where they can be hateful together.
People don't have the time or the power for this nonsense.
And the few that that do would have done it anyway.
So, we say that once there is no censorship and everyone, including children by the way, have free access to forums of white supremacists, for instance, then it just gets a much larger exposure.
And so a much bigger number of people is gradually becoming more radical.
Second point really quickly is about the freedom of free like the rights to free speech.
So just in case the other side will choose to talk about how we are harming people's rights for free speech or something, we wanna say everybody has a million ways to express themselves out in public.
If someone insists on expressing himself in the one particular way which we don't want to allow, because it's actively creating a dangerous atmosphere that might pose a threat to certain groups, and then dares to whine about the fact that that we're taking away his right to express himself, and he seriously needs to grow up.
Please propose.