We should legalize organ trade.
We're going to implement a model that resembles surrogacy: both sides sit down and sign a legal, formal contract, with an agreed-upon price by both parties.
These entire procedures will obviously require that you go through medical counseling that both makes sure that the chances of the implant to actually succeed are high and that both parties understand the risks involved.
So all of this process is going to be professionally supervised by doctors.
Three arguments in this speech: why legalization is going to solve the problem of scarcity in organs and save many lives, why this is legitimate, why do we have a right to do this, and on black markets.
So first argument.
Right now we have a huge shortage the in organs.
The demand far outreaches the supply, and we are going to argue that this shortage is inherent.
The entire supply side rests on voluntary donations, both pre-mortem and post-mortem.
And now naturally, there's not a lot of incentive to donate organs pre-mortem unless it is in order to save like a close friend or a relative, so we don't get too much of these.
As for post-mortem, the only incentive for people to donate organs post-mortem is a moral one, and there's no actual, you know, physical incentive to donate organs and therefore, most people just don't do it.
They don't sign the the papers that say that they allow for organs to be taken from them post-mortem.
We say that money incentivizes people a lot more than a nice and cozy moral feeling.
We say that that is why we, for instance, need to make tax aversion a criminal offense and just and threaten to lock you up if you don't pay your taxes, because we just don't trust that you will pay taxes out of the kindness of your heart.
So, money is an incentive that does work, and as soon as we allow for trade, we create true incentives for people to donate more organs, which means that shortage, which means more people like less people dying in line for a an implant.
Now, we don't think that opposition can seriously oppose this, so let's move on to why this is legitimate.
Why do we have a right?
Opposition are going to say that we're screwing over the poorest of the poor that will feel almost coerced to sell their organs at cheap prices because they cannot rationally consider the long-term effects, because this is irreversible and so on and so on and therefore, we must ban this in order to protect the weaker parts of society.
So let's answer this one by one.
As for coercion, we say the choice is never binary, but always a spectrum.
Yes, some people can afford more choice than others, but it is unclear to us why this is wrongful coercion and choosing to work in manual labor in order to support yourself isn't.
As for like too cheap a price, two answers.
Firstly, we believe that once a market develops to these things, prices are going to be more or less homogeneous because I'm going to, you know, find out what's the maximum price that profit that I can make from donating a a kidney, and there's no reason for me to take any less because there's a lot of demand for it.
So I can always find someone that will pay the market price.
Secondly, there is no such a thing as a too low a price.
We have no way to assign absolute values of worth to an organ or to anything else for that matter.
And the best way to do that is the market value that is assigned through the natural laws of demand and supply.
As for rational considerations, we think that the fact that you are poor doesn't mean that you're stupid or less capable of understanding the long-term effects and in light of our mechanism, of course, that you will you will be like a doctor will sit you will take you through all of the long-term effects.
And as and about, you know, this process being irreversible, we think that a lot of the decisions that we take in life are irreversible.
A tattoo is irreversible.
We don't have any problem with that.
Lastly and very shortly on black markets.
So, we say that as long as we don't legalize it, that doesn't mean that we are able to stop organ trade.
Just like anywhere else where the where the demand outreaches the supply and the country puts limitations on trade, people turn to the black market where all of the harms that opposition side will talk about still occur and even a lot more than that, because there's no supervision and so on.
Very, very bad.
Please propose.