Look, so far as side government agrees with us that it's vital that we maintain social security as an option, we say that the only feasible way to do this is to keep it mandatory.
Side proposition cannot hold the stick at both its ends.
They tell us they don't want to cancel social security, just don't want to force people to take part in it.
They have three arguments for this.
Let's refute them one by one.
Firstly, they talk about the right to take taxes and how social security doesn't stem from that right.
They tell us that taxation is like an armed robbery, this robbery has to be justified, and it can only be justified for redistribution purposes because the state knows to identify needs that the individual cannot identify, but the state doesn't know what's best for the individual himself, therefore, social security isn't justified.
Now, we don't really see the use in this weird philosophical argument because it doesn't even convince us that taxation is justified.
So what if the government identifies someone else's needs.
What does it have to do with me?
Why does it justify taxing me?
We say that the real answer to taxation is a lot simpler than that.
We take taxes because this is the only way to get things done.
Because without forcing you to pay taxes, the government isn't going to have enough money to fund its army or to fund basic infrastructure or other public goods, and this entire redistribution that they're talking about so much is at best, just an added benefit as far as we're concerned.
Now crucially, if we allow every citizen to opt out of paying taxes, there will be very few people that will choose to do so voluntarily and that is what justified justifies a forced taxation.
This is the exact same way in which we are going to justify the current social security program and that is by showing that if we agree that it, like, that we want to still have such a thing that's called social security, as side government agrees with us, then the only way to do so is by making it mandatory.
So, secondly, they tell us that sometimes it's a smart like it it would be smarter to invest your money now because it's going to pay off later, and then social security is just like a tax that deters people from investment.
Now they tell us that the individual has a right to choose what to do because he's the one that suffers the consequences.
Now we're going to fully accept that, yes, every type of taxation operates as an inhibitor for investment.
What can we do?
Like this is just like taxation.
Of course it goes out against investment, but that's just something that we're going to have to live with if we want social security to still be functional.
Lastly, they tell us social security isn't sustainable, and the only way to solve this is to allow whoever doesn't whoever doesn't need the system to just opt out.
Now note: this is the heart of the argument.
This is the clash really.
They tell you that in order to sustain itself, social security must become optional.
We are going to say that the very moment that we make it optional, we are signing the obituary of the social security program.
It is true that there are hardships of, like, aging and other problems that create short-term challenges.
Now we're talking about twenty to thirty years from now and that, I'm sorry, long-term challenges twenty thirty years from now, and we are going to have to find ways to overcome these challenges.
For instance, maybe raising the retirement age is an option.
But opening up social security to only whoever is interested in it is going to make sure that, already in the short term, this entire business is going to come crashing down, rendering the long-term threats irrelevant.
Why?
Simple.
We say that people can fall into two groups.
There are those that , you know, extract more social security money than the money that they put in, you know, unemployed people, handicapped people and so on.
And there are those that invest more social security like money from what they actually are entitled to get.
Now, these are essentially the people that fund the other people.
Side government could have simply resisted that and and said that this is unfair, but it seems that they are all fine with redistribution, right?
So we don't even have to justify it.
What happens the moment that opt out is going to become possible is, obviously, that whoever pays more than he is entitled to get is going to opt out, and this and like the only people wanting to stay are the ones that have something to gain from social security.
Only now there's going to be no possible way of funding them.
We say that this is, of course, unsustainable, and so we see that all of the arguments of side proposition don't stand in the debate.
Please oppose.