Television does more harm than good.
First argument.
TV gets us addicted to immediate satisfaction.
The revolutionary thing that came with television is the concept of immediate rewards.
In almost any other hobby that pops to mind, you are required to invest time and effort in order to get satisfied.
Think about sports, about playing an instrument, about reading books, about debating for instance.
All of these things are things that commit you to long hours, and that most times you have to also invest a physical effort or a cognitive effort, in order to gradually get better and reach a high enough level that will allow you true gratification.
We believe that this is a positive thing, because it instills in us a certain work ethic, it incentivizes us to work hard, and by doing so, developing ourselves, and eventually this is how we are able to succeed in other challenges in life.
In education, in the workplace, etcetera.
Television only requires that we sit and stare at the screen.
It promises us immediate and ongoing sensory stimulation without having to do anything.
Now, seeing as people are lazy creatures that always tend to opt for shortcuts to satisfaction, they get used to this incredibly quickly.
They get addicted to it and and forgo on other activities that are more challenging.
It's one thing when the cinema was invented, and we we're talking merely about, like, a once in every couple of weeks, night out.
But the moment that it entered every living room and allowed for entire generations to spend hours a day glued to the screen, we believe that this has become a true social catastrophe.
If you will, we think that this can be equated to a global addiction to masturbation on a massive scale.
Opposition might say that they don't have any problem with that, because eventually all we're doing is letting people get what they want to.
So what if it's immediate satisfaction and not hard earned.
Well we would like to ask opposition if they would be willing to live in a world in which everyone spend their entire lives wired to virtual reality machines, that just give them infinite utility.
This is a world where everyone is easily satisfied but has no independence, no freedom, no self actualization, and in our opinion, this is a very sad world indeed.
Second argument.
Why content that is trash prevails over high quality content.
Well, of course we think that's TV also brings good things to world.
But all of that depends on the assumption that there is also serious and high quality content on TV.
We believe that in today's world, such content is an endangered species.
We can see how in every generation that's pass that's passing, the air time is being filled with more and more reality TV shows and other types of trash that is both stupid and stupefying, and and in like little to no good high quality TV shows.
This happens for the simple reason that these are commercial TV channels, and they are incentivized to to maximize ratings.
And seeing as people as we see as we already saw are looking for immediate pleasures without having to over-think stuff, then it is TV shows like jersey shore and the bachelor that are winning the fight over the minds of the viewers.
We believe that this is inevitably a process that only is going to get more and more extreme with each generation, and therefore we think that all of the good stuff that comes out of television will gradually fade away and disappear entirely.
For all of these reasons, please propose.