The two claims made by side government in favor of abolishing the security council's veto rights are that it isn't fair and that it harms the efficacy of the UN.
Here's the thing: we completely agree that that's exactly what happens.
In case of harming the efficacy of the UN, we simply think that this is excellent.
In fact, we believe that this is exactly what the veto is meant for, just like any other mechanism of checks and balance, in order to make sure that bodies that hold unlimited amount of power wouldn't be able to exert it too easily.
Now, in case of fairness, we simply don't think that it matters so much, and will himself doesn't really bother to explain why fairness matters more than power.
We think that when it comes to diplomacy and things like international relations, fairness simply isn't a currency, and that is a sacrifice that we are quite easily prepared to make.
Nevertheless, I will engage in direct rebuttal just to make things more clear as to what we agree with and where we disagree with side government.
So, in the in the previous speaker's first argument, he says that the veto rights aren't fair, firstly, because they grant disproportional power to the strong countries, or better yet to countries that used to be strong back in the days where the UN was founded.
With this we completely agree.
Secondly, they say that it's unfair because this perpetuates imperialist structures and allows the stronger states to somehow abuse the weaker states.
I fail to see how this is even remotely true.
We haven't received any examples from will to how the security council has somehow, like by vetoing something, contributed to imperialism.
So, yes, it is not fair.
This much is true, but to an extent.
It's not what currently is ruining the lives of citizens of third world countries.
Let's not exaggerate.
In his second argument, we hear that the veto rights are harming the efficacy of the UN.
Why?
Because now we wouldn't be able to issue condoning resolutions for rogue countries like we would have wanted.
Well, boo-hoo.
Nobody in this world cares about these stupid resolutions anyway.
That is important.
This is not really the purpose of the UN, as will has you believe, and that is not what matters.
What matters is that the UN has advanced military power and capabilities and that it can decide to deploy them and intervene in whatever conflicts it deems fit.
In this type of situation, it is absolutely essential that there would be check mechanisms in place to make sure that this power isn't being used lightly.
Therefore, when side government talks about harming or curbing the ability of the UN to function, we think that this is a good thing.
This is exactly analogous to how separation of powers and judicial review and things of this sort are meant to curb the government's ability to exercise its power swiftly and easily.
If we would have left things like decisions and matters concerning declarations of war to be settled in the general assembly of the UN and to be settled by a simple majority in the general assembly, this would have been way too easy to gather the needed votes to decide to intervene militarily.
If we were to use will's own example, what if someone were to bring up this the proposition to not just condemn, but to also attack israel militarily for its occupation of the west bank?
It is known that in the general assembly, israel suffers from significant bias against it due to the large number of arab nations, and so it's likely to assume that this proposition would have passed.
And you know what proposition would have never passed?
Militarily intervening in syria, exactly because there are plenty of conflicting interests to the many member states in the general assembly.
So, as we can see, things would not have become more fair, only more dangerous and more volatile.
We have no problem with changing the structure of the security council so it better reflects the current superpowers in the world, but the veto rights must remain as a balancing factor on the UN's ability to abuse its powers.
Please oppose.