We hear two very different types of arguments coming from the previous speaker.
Let's answer them one by one.
The first argument.
In the first argument, they tell us that not guilty is not an option, and a person that uses that successfully uses the insanity plea mustn't go home, because you know we have to protect society from a potentially dangerous individual, and for rehabilitation purposes.
Note that eitan confuses two different things here.
The first is being found guilty or not guilty, and the second is being released home.
These are not the same things.
Note, that already in the status quo, in order to institutionalize a mental patient forcefully, we needn't find him guilty of anything, we we hospitalize people even if they hadn't done anything, but we have cause to believe that they might pose a threat or a danger to their surroundings, or to to themselves, we do this all the time, there's no problem with that.
So we have no problem of forcing a person that has used the the insanity plea to commit himself to a mental institution for a certain period of time, for all the important reasons that side government talks about.
But we will insist that such a person is not guilty and should not be convicted, since there was no mental elements, no mens rea to his crime, and this is something that's a crucial and necessary condition in order to facilitate the criminal offense.
So, yes, not guilty is an option.
In fact, it's the only option, and this entire argument is not exactly on clash.
Then we hear a second argument, and we need to answer this as well.
What eitan tells us is that seeing as this is a complicated professional matter, therefore therefore a certified psychiatrist should be the one to decide, and not the members of the jury.
So we'd like to remind eitan that the members of the jury don't just decide whatever they want, but they sit and hear what's called expert witnesses that give expert opinions based on their professional expertise, so the advantage in this system is that unlike what side government are offering, this allows the jury to hear several opinions, sometimes conflicting opinions, and reach a decision based on more information than just one expert witness, that even though he's an expert in his field, might make mistakes, just like anybody else, but there will be no second chance of correcting those errors under the system that side government are are proposing.
This means that we're not really losing any important information in the jury system, because the expertise of the psychiatrists there's is still playing a vital part, but rather we gain more information, because we allow for the jury to hear several expert witnesses and expert opinions, and and thus they can see a bigger picture and decide based on all of the information.
So for all of these reasons, we are very proud to oppose.