We should abolish the double jeopardy defense.
The fact that you were somehow able to slip justice once doesn't mean that you should get rewarded for it.
The justice system is only worthy of its name so long as it strives to deliver exactly that, justice.
And what is justice if not making sure that whoever wronged others gets what he deserves?
There is nothing just about letting a criminal walk around freely just because some critical, crucial evidence was only found, you know, after his trial.
Why this won't be abused by the state, we think that that's the major issue here.
So, it is true that the principle of double jeopardy that appears in the fifth amendment to the constitution is there because it was meant to provide a defense to the small citizen that finds themselves spending accused and fighting for his life with the most powerful organization that exists, that that is called the state, but we think that there is no logical reason to assume that the extreme measure of accusing a defendant twice, someone that was already vindicated, and and judging him for a second time, there's no reason to believe that this will be put to sinister use by the state.
This is a measure that will only be kept for the specific cases in which the prosecution is really and truly convinced in the guilt of the defendant and not in order to just, you know, convict innocent people.
Why is that?
Firstly, the public prosecution is a body that is incentivized to work according to successful conviction rates.
No district attorney will ever risk losing the same case twice if he is not entirely certain that this will not happen, meaning that it is only the cases where they have a clear-cut unquestionable evidence that they will choose to to press charges a second time.
Secondly, thanks to the press, the public is now much more involved and much more aware of what's going on in the legal system than it used to be, certainly than what it it used to be during the period of the, you know, of the writing of the bill of rights.
The vox populi use are is used as a major check on the criminal system.
And again, the prosecution will simply not take the risk of getting caught and being perceived as a body that falsely pursues convictions at all costs.
Thirdly, you know, the entire history isn't deleted the moment that we enact this change.
After so many years in which the double jeopardy defense was an integral part of the legal system, this is ingrained deeply into the collective memory of the public, in general, and specifically, like in judges' memories, and therefore we think that it's perfectly obvious that every such instance of double jeopardy tomorrow will earn a very close watch by the judiciary and by, you know, and just under it will will go under the public's eye.
So all of this leads us to being like obligated to assume that this step of putting someone twice in jeopardy will only be reserved for a clear cases of mishaps of the justice system, where a man that, by all accounts, needs to sit behind bars has slipped away, and we are doubting that opposition side will oppose that these specific people deserve to walk freely and don't deserve to be prosecuted once again.
For all these reasons, please propose.