We should prohibit flag burning.
When people partake in the act of burning flags, they're exceeding the limits of expressing an ideological stance and venturing into the dangerous territories of a violent threat or even incitement.
Three arguments in this speech: one, the special meaning and significance of flags.
Two, the special meaning of burning a flag.
And three, why allowing flag burning as a legitimate protest is dangerous.
First argument: a flag is way more than just a piece of cloth with some colored ink.
Ask yourself: why do flags exist?
Why do we need them?
The answer is that people have an innate need for iconization.
A flag is a wonderful way to take a large group of people and tie it emotionally to this huge idea that's called a country or a nation, because this can be an idea that's very hard to explain in words because every person experiences the sense of belonging to this group a bit differently.
Like what we can do is take a unified visual symbol that will form a link and create an automatic emotional reaction from each and every individual in this group.
This is why companies have logos, this is why sports clubs always have their their symbol or their mascot.
And for that reason the flag, to many people, is a vital part of their identity.
It's the physical embodiment of their national sentiment.
They are emotionally invested in that piece of cloth.
This leads me to my second argument: what's the meaning of burning a flag?
So when somebody publicly burns the flag of my country and, even more so, when an angry mob does it, because that's usually the situation, it's an it's an act that's meant to enthuse a crowd, then the message they intend to convey is that the group that I belong to should be annihilated, and I should be afraid because I'm no longer safe in the place I call home.
And even if that's not the exact message that the arsonist has intended to convey and he truly had a more complex political statement to make, the aggressive way in which he chose to express this message didn't leave any choice for me but to receive the message that I'm being threatened.
We think there isn't really that much of a difference between this and sending a photo to my mail address of my entire family against something that symbolizes home and my identity and the deepest belonging that I have, with targets on their foreheads.
This is simply a threat, and we already have laws against it.
Now, I can no longer sleep at night.
Only this time, it's not just me but a shitload of people who are being threatened.
People who probably had nothing to do with the thing that the flag burner wants to protest against, totally innocent people.
Now there's a name for this technique of frightening innocent civilians: it's called terrorism.
It is the state's job to protect its citizens from terror and allow them to sleep well at night.
Besides, if we believe that a person has a right to self defense against explicit threats, surely the state has the same right to defend itself against such threats.
And and one way to do that is to stop the people threatening it by burning its flag.
Third argument: why is it dangerous?
So, so far, we've been talking about the principle reasons to prohibit this but opposition could say something like: if we don't let people have this relatively peaceful outlet to the anger they feel towards the establishment, they will channel there outrage to actual violence against actual people.
In our mind, it's completely the opposite.
We are in favor of allowing peaceful protests and demonstrations of all sorts, but such provocative actions like flag burning is exactly what ferments many times the atmosphere that is already tense enough and is pushing people from just protesting to actual criminal actions.
This is meant to enthuse and entice people.
If we prohibit it, people will be more deterred and will do it less.
But as long as it's legal and can happen in any protest, this protest may soon turn from peaceful to violent.
For all of these reasons, please propose.