We're going to agree with the side governments that the choice to become a surrogate mother is very difficult and with very serious implications, but that cannot be in itself a good enough reason to deny women that choice.
We think that eventually, there is no concrete difference between the decision to become a surrogate mother and many many other difficult decisions that people who face financial hardships are forced to make, and that even side government would never dream of banning.
We do not understand why this is inherently different from a single mom that is forced to work in several manual labor jobs for fourteen hours a day, just to be able to bring back food to the table and feed her children.
We hear from tim firstly, that women are incapable of fully grasping the risks and implications of pregnancies.
Three answers here.
First, we do not understand why this is necessarily the case.
For many women a surrogacy isn't their first pregnancy, and even if it is, we say that there is a lot of access to information about pregnancies and what they entail in our society.
Secondly, we say that gaps of information exist in a lot of other decisions, and -n in employment contracts for instance, in which you agree to something without being able to actually know first hand how how this is going to affect you.
We still allow these contract.
And thirdly and most importantly, please note that according to this knowledge, according to this logic, sorry, women can simply never or should never get pregnant to begin with, because if a pregnancy is so coercive by nature, then why allow women to endure through it?
Now tim's going to tell us that there is no problem of going through a pregnancy, as long as this awards you with a child, because it's worth it.
But how can you tell?
How can you know up front if the award of raising that child is going to be worth all the harms of pregnancy.
At least as long as your reward is financial, then you can evaluate it more precisely and more objectively, and estimate exactly how much these risks are worth to you.
Secondly, we hear that women cannot opt out from this contract, and therefore it's like slavery.
We we just disagree, we think that in most surrogacy agreements there are clauses that define that define exactly the terms and penalties in cases of breach of contract, just like any other contract.
And besides that, slavery is, you know, for life.
Where here we are only discussing nine months at the worst case, so even if these are particularly, like, difficult months, we do not think that there's really room for comparison.
Next we're being told that surrogacy targets the weakest women in society, and therefore it's unfair.
The only problem is that it's unclear to us why the alternative, which is as I mentioned busting your ass, is more fair, because at least when you're a surrogate mom, then all of your medical needs are tended to.
You get to see doctors, you get to see your children.
Besides, even if we ban surrogacy, clearly what's going to happen is that people will simply look for surrogacy options outside of the states, right?
Typically in developing countries where women are even more poor and and miserable, and the chances for a woman, like the risk for a woman and the chances that she will be abused grows a lot more.
So government loses the clash of aiding the weak too.
So, and eventually we hear about the option of adoption.
Now of course that option exists, and obviously we don't have anything against adoption, but for obvious reasons most people prefer to to bring their own child to the world rather than adopt a child.
Now it is side government's burden, not only to mention that more people are going to adopt and now everything is going to be wonderful, but to also explain why they think that it's legitimate that same sex couples, or couples that are facing fertility problems, will be forced to adopt, while all of the other couples can simply, like, have children that are their own flesh and blood.
This they do not do for a second.
And for all of these reasons, opposition wins this debate.
Please oppose.