It's funny to hear the previous speaker talk about, how the right to self defense derives from the right to life that should be absolute, and then, the next thing he does, is move on to explain why as soon as somebody threatens me, no matter the the circumstances, it is completely okay for me to kill him, meaning to harm his right to life.
There is a reason, that government's side is contradicting itself, and that is, that there is a categorical fallacy in the concept of absolute rights.
My constructive point is going to be on why there isn't and cannot be such a thing as absolute rights, before that, let's address the things that james has said in his speech.
First, he talks about facilitation of rights, and he says that if there is any right that is absolute, then this requires the right to life to be absolute, and then, as an extension, the right to self defense.
Our answer is, as one can expect, that indeed no right is absolute.
Even james, james' right to life, which he talks about, isn't truly absolute.
Take for example, the fact that the country can demand from its soldiers to risk their lives for the state.
We'll talk more about that on the constructive.
Next, he goes out against the idea of a proportional response.
In this he says two things: a, I can never know the true intentions of the person that attacks me, therefore if someone threatens me, then any type of reaction that is meant to remove that this threat is justified, and b, no external person that, hasn't been in my shoes in that situation, could ever understand, therefore not criticize the way in which I acted.
Let's answer these one after another.
A, if, even if you cannot know for certain the intent of the person that attacks you, you are not completely without information.
You could still assess how much of an ability this person has to harm you.
For instance, does he have a weapon or not?
Is he stronger than you?
Or that, or is it someone harmless?
As, at best, this would be a reason to allow a judge a little bit of leeway, in judging the situation, but surely, this does not mean that we should, like, that this is a reason to refrain from this case ever reaching a court.
Let's answer b.
I'm pretty certain that james himself understands the huge problem problem that his logic creates.
He he essentially endorses a situation, in which every type of cas is based, is is judged based on the subjective feeling of the person it involved, and no, and not based on an objective, unified standard.
Unlike what james said, this is of course unprecedented in the legal system, for the simple reason that, it creates a situation in which any type of action can be justified, they can simply say that like, I can simply kill everyone that ever raises his voice on me, and government's logic would completely be valid here.
But, the truth is that we need'nt go so far, because all we have to do is look at the recent cases of of police officers shooting suspects, without ever thinking twice, even if they are unarmed, because they enjoy the like, over-consideration of the courts in their subjective feelings.
Lastly, that he says that this is a natural right, and this is an absurd argument, because in nature people were free to do a lot of things, that we don't allow them today in a civilized society.
So, let's move on to our constructive.
Why there isn't and cannot be absolute rights?
When we talk about absolute rights, we talk about something that no one can ever justifiably take away from you, no matter what happens.
In fact, we believe that the very definition of the term right means that they cannot be absolute.
Why?
Because rights tend to clash with one another, you have the freedom of movement, but you cannot move yourself into another person's home, because his right to property trumps your right to move.
You have the freedom of speech, but you cannot scream death to x, because x's right to security trumps your rights of speech.
If everyone had absolute rights, we would have no way of solving these clashes.
We could not limit one person's right, and therefore he could harm other people's rights.
When everyone has absolute rights in theory, no one has this right in practice, please oppose.