Assuming that eventually there is a set sum of money that the country has to raise through taxation and it can do that either by a progressive taxation system where the the rate of taxation on income is determined according to brackets of income or by implementing a a flat tax rate system in which the rate of taxation on income is set for everyone.
Our contention is that the former is going to be both fairer and more efficient than the latter, and therefore, obviously, beneficial.
So, first argument: why is this more fair?
Second argument: why is this also more efficient?
First argument: the concept of diminishing marginal utility states that people's utility functions are not linear, but rather concave.
Or in simple terms, this means that if I am hungry and I start, like, picking apples from a tree, then the value that I'm going to like, assign to each apple isn't constant.
The first apple is going to be priceless to me.
The second apple is still very valuable, but somewhat less.
The third apple is already much less valuable and the fourth apple already holds nearly no value to me.
This means that the value or the utility of a set sum of money means completely different things to a poor person and a rich person and that is simply because the difference between going to bed on an empty or on a full stomach is much more important to a person's happiness than the difference between driving a mercedes and driving a ferrari.
The, like, this effect is so strong that we can say that the derivative utility function of people is also concave.
This means that if we look at percentage, a ten percent raise in salary to a poor person is much more significant to him than a ten percent raise in salary for a rich person.
Obviously, this is also symmetrically true in cases of taxation.
Which is the, like, negative of the raise.
So, if either way we are forced to take a certain amount of money via taxation, the fair thing to do would be to aspire that the subjective meaning to to each citizen will be somewhat identical.
Therefore, we have no other choice but to implement progressive taxation.
Why is this also more efficient?
Well, it is a fact that progressive taxation leads to less inequality, whereas a flat rate tax leads to rampant inequality.
Thomas piketty's studies show us that the level of inequality throughout the world is growing at an exponential rate when where more and more capital is concentrating at the concentrated at the hands of an ever-shrinking elite.
It is easy to see that such a trend is unsustainable and is destructive to the economy.
Now, note, we needn't argue that like, we must have full equality or a very high level of equality in order to promote growth.
This is a long-fought debate that we do not mean to settle here.
It's enough for us to understand that without taking the most basic actions in order to, like, somewhat moderate this rampant trend of inequality, meaning implementing a progressive taxation system, within a few generations, the division of wealth is going to be such that like, so disparate that ninety-nine percent of the population is going to suffer the consequences.
So, we ask you: please propose progressive taxation.