We should ban partial-birth abortions.
This debate will only discuss cases in which the fetus is healthy and there is no danger to the mother's life.
We would all agree that killing a one-day-old baby would be seriously wrong.
For the sake of this debate, we'll also concede that first-trimester abortions should be available.
Thus, the question arises of what's the specific critical moment in which the fetus gains a right to be protected from abortions.
But that is a very tough philosophical nut to crack, because some believe it's as soon as it gains a pulse or draws breath or develops a brain or a nervous system, etcetera, etcetera, and this can be debated infinitely because there is no objective answer here.
It's a matter of subjective belief.
Therefore, we're going to circumvent this question and instead ask: what is the right way to do to what is the right thing to do in cases of moral uncertainty?
We're going to argue that in such cases, we must err on the side of caution and prevent abortions.
Opposition can either agree that these are the circumstances and argue that we should act differently, or try and explain why there is no moral uncertainty and no dilemma here whatsoever.
So the first point we would like to make is about finding the right balance.
Part of what leads to this vagueness is that we have conflicting values here.
The common framing is a conflict between the value of life and the value of choice, but we believe that both these values are hugely important and deserve to be taken into account.
Therefore, just like in any other place where there is a clash between values, we must think of how we can strike a right balance.
It wouldn't be serious to regard only life while disregarding choice entirely, or the other way around.
So we think that the solution of allowing for just for like first-trimester abortions only, allowing couples to opt out of the pregnancy while the fetus is not yet very developed and the procedure itself is more humane and less grotesque, we think that this is an absolution that allows for both values to be honored to a reasonable degree.
The second argument that we have is about minimizing harms according to the min-max principle.
Seeing as we can't just go to the fetus and ask him or evaluate precisely the extent to which it's already a human being or how much it suffers as a result of an abortion, we must ask ourselves what is the worst-case scenario, and act in order to prevent it.
This is the min-max principle.
So, on one hand, we have a woman that's forced to bring a child to the world after already showing an intent to keep the baby, and then probably regretting it because otherwise, she may just aborted sooner.
Now, if she is really unwilling or unprepared to raise that child, there are other solutions, like adoption.
Of course, this is a hard experience, both mentally and physically.
However, on the other hand, what we have, in the worst-case scenario, is a living, sentient, self-aware and innocent being whose life is being terminated brutishly, and we think that in many cases, the woman will still be scarred mentally or physically after an abortion as well.
So, if we had to choose, we'd rather err on the side of caution and not allow for the abortion.
Whatever harm may come to the woman, we can try and help out as a society.
If the problem is money, then we can give we can try and help her financially.
If the problem is a mental one, then we can provide social workers or or some psychology like treatments of any sort.
But with abortions, we're talking about an irreversible harm.
So, because of due to the min-max principle and to all due to all of the reasons that we've discussed, we are proud to propose.