Physical education should be mandatory.
Compulsory PE lessons in schools aren't a modern day fat but have existed since the time of ancient greece.
The greeks believed in the phrase " healthy body healthy mind ", and this is what side government stands for today.
We'll have two points in the speech: the first is the goal of education in schools all together, and the second is on the effect PE lessons have on the physically unfit children, because we recognize that they are probably the most important actors in this debate.
So, first point: along the years, school has gotten a reputation of an institution that's meant to develop only one's cognitive skills, with lessons such as math and history and literature taking the front stage whereas the more physical skills and PE lessons have been pushed to the back.
We think that this is unfortunate.
We believe schools are meant to prepare our children for the world as an adult and in order to do that, we need to provide them with a range of tools in as many fields as we consider vital.
Now just as it's okay for the school to demand that everyone should practice math and history, even though not all of them will really need it later in life, because we recognize these fields as important important enough to make sure that everyone knows a little bit about them.
We think that it's also okay to demand that kids will get a little bit involved and a little bit more knowledgeable about physical education.
Moving on to the second and more important point in this debate which deals with how we how will this affect overweight children, because the truth is that the vast majority of children aren't really going to be affected by this policy.
In fact, they'll probably be happy to have more PE lessons and be given a break from sitting down and studying in the classroom.
But the ones that aren't as happy and that the problem lies with here are the more overweight or unfit children, the ones that don't feel comfortable having to run around with everyone else watching.
The other side may go up and and say that for these kids, PE lesson PE lessons is a traumatic experience because it makes them ashamed of their bodies and makes it harder for them to succeed in other lessons and so on.
We are willing to concede that for some children, this will create some inconvenience.
However, a: in any other field in school, there's always those who do less well and it could impact their self-confidence and everything, but it still doesn't mean that we should simply stop teaching the subject.
To many, many students, math is the biggest nightmare of their lives.
So what?
We can't give up math on account of these students.
What we should do is make sure to be giving them special attention and try and help them overcome the barriers that they are facing, and that's what we should do with these overweight children as well.
B: this feeling of inconvenience, and we need to understand this, doesn't really go away.
When all your friends go down and play soccer in the school yard during recess while you are staying indoors, you still feel different, you still feel left out, and you might still be made fun of.
In fact, if we put these kids on the field, even if they do less well, it's likelier that they will feel a part of the group more than they would have had they been the only ones to stay and not play with everybody else.
Lastly, when you are forced to participate in PE lessons and cannot hide or run from feeling inconvenient, and you cannot just avoid the situation, this subject this this just might be what is needed for you to develop a motivation to exercise more and be more physically active.
So, even if in the short term, these lessons are probably not going to help anyone become a super healthy athlete, in the long run, it might help overweight children become healthier.
Please propose.