We should criminalize blasphemy.
Freedom of expression is meant to protect people that wish to voice unpopular opinions from persecution.
It is not meant to allow people to offend others and make them feel persecuted.
This is why probably wearing a swastika is forbidden in the united states and rightfully so.
We will show that there's an analogy to be made between swastikas and blasphemy.
So if opposition will wish to defend one of these things on the grounds of freedom of expression, it should also defend the other.
For many religious people that truly believe in god or muhammad, or jesus, and in their sanctity, this is a highly sensitive topic.
Being a witness to the mockery of one of these figures isn't just making them feel uncomfortable, it makes them feel that they somehow have sinned.
That their purity is now compromised and it might even risk their chances of redemption in the next world.
There's a difference between criticizing something and mocking it.
The freedom of expression does allow me to argue with a religious friend of mine and try to convince him to see the light and beauty of the secular life and vice versa.
And thank god for that.
Or not god if you're secular.
This is mutually beneficial.
It helps both sides.
I can even, in a moment of anger, be less articulate and just slam in my friend's face that he ought to be crazy in order to believe in god.
But the line is crossed the very minute that I really aim to hurt my friend by mocking his faith.
For instance, characterizing muhammad.
By doing so I'm not expressing an opinion, but sheerly, aggressively attacking the other person in order to belittle him.
This is verbal violence.
Same as if I say that something like if they say something mean about someone's mother.
I'm intentionally targeting a weak spot and using it in order to belittle and infuriate the other side.
Now it's hard enough to deal with your mom being mocked, but when your faith is mocked, that puts you in an even harder position.
First, because there's no way to pay back in kind to the person to the person insulting you.
Everyone has a mom but not like for non believers there's no such thing of the same magnitude that you can attack in order to get even.
Secondly, and that's the more important part, cursing god is a sin, probably punishable by death.
A highly religious person truly believes that.
As far as he's concerned, it's up to him to restore the lord's honor by punishing the person that's committed blasphemy, but obviously he can't do anything about it in return because the law forbids it.
So as long as blasphemy is criminalized, that person can at least file a complaint or alert the authorities and so he would get some form of punishing done.
But otherwise, the insults stays unresponded to, and as far as religious as religion goes, and as far as the believers point of view, that's his own personal failure.
He failed to protect the honor of his god and maybe god is angry with him right now.
So for that person, this is not just humiliating, but also terrifying.
He now needs to live in fear that this might have cost him his ticket to heaven, and that's way worse than anything you could do to him in this life.
Now opposition can try and attack this logic by saying that one's subjective feelings shouldn't be shouldn't be like relevant in a decision whether something should be banned.
But we disagree.
Ask yourself, which is worse?
To vandalize an apartment building or a synagogue?
Naturally we understand that the latter is more severe and it's not because the objective damage is somehow bigger, but because of the emotional value invested in this house of worship and because of what it symbolizes.
This is why we care about preserving sacred sites.
This is where we can draw the analogy to wearing a swastika in public.
Here as well, as far as objective harm, nothing happened.
It's all about the subjective feelings that this act invokes.
But when it comes to such intense feelings that can result in the actual distress of other people, we can confidently say that the freedom of expression is over.
Proud to propose.