International adoption brings more good than harm.
I truly believe that there is nothing in the world that is kinder than to save the life of a child that would otherwise be doomed to a life of hunger, disease and suffering.
There exists no objection, no harm that opposition can point to here that can possibly match the infinite amount of good that comes out of such an act.
We dare assume that opposition don't have a principled objection to adoption, in general, and that they understand the importance of it.
Therefore, the relevant question in this debate is why adopt children from third world countries and not your own home country?
The first thing I'd like to do is get off the table, in this debate, the silly objection according to which it would be better for the adopted child himself.
So, let's talk a bit about the benefit of the child.
So, some opposers argue that on top of all of the natural problems that adopted children have to deal with, internationally adopted children have to also face the hardship of being very different visually from their surroundings and their families, and so they warn us that overcoming all of the identity issues and so on are going to become much harder.
But what these opposers never bother to do is be comparative.
Obviously, it isn't going to be simple.
It's never easy to be adopted, and no one argued that these children will grow up problem-free.
But the alternative here is to remain in a failed country, in unimaginable conditions, where there's a high chance these children won't even reach adulthood.
So, we think that it's obvious that there's no room to discuss here what's best for the child himself, that's just silly.
So the tougher question in this debate, given that adopting a child internationally means one less orphaned child from our country that gets adopted, is whether it's legitimate to prioritize in such a way, or does charity begin at home, as they say?
We say a simple thing: the conditions of orphans in poverty-stricken or post-conflict countries, such as syria or rwanda, are a hundred times worse than orphans in developed countries.
These kids don't get to have supervision from the state.
They don't get to have an orphanage that takes care of feeding them or providing shelter from them for them.
They don't get social security or education programs and so on and so forth.
Obviously, we're not underestimating the many hardships that orphan children in the developed world are going through, but we think it would be fair to say that there's no there's just no room to compare the conditions and the suffering of the two.
In the simplest level, an orphan child in the US, no matter what happens, is very unlikely to die of sickness or hunger, while in africa, it would be hard to say that with the same amount of certainty.
Having said that, we think it's incredibly self-centered and inhumane to say that until we take care of all our domestic problems, we can't afford to help others.
Why won't we help the ones who need it most?
The place where we were the place where we were born is arbitrary.
Now that doesn't mean that it has no significance at all, because we understand that the government has to take care of its own citizens first, for example, but it does mean that this concept of the importance of local nationality has its limits.
Just like strong countries help out weaker countries when those face humanitarian crises due to war or some natural disaster, we think it would be cruel to just stand by and not lend a hand when we can do something about it.
It's cruel to say, " sorry, but we've got our own problems to take care of out here. "
So, it's the same thing.
Look, obviously, it's not our burden in this debate to dictate what people should or shouldn't do.
We have no beef with parents who prioritize differently and choose to adopt children of their own country.
We think it's a legitimate choice.
However, we think that people that say that the other option is illegitimate just because there are still problems back home, are mistaken.
This is where we stand in proposition, and we're proud to propose.