We should ban abortions in all levels of pregnancy no exceptions, except for when the woman's life is objectively at stake.
We think that the debate on abortions has reached a philosophical stand still.
That is due to the fact that the arguments from both sides tended to focus on the wrong questions.
The most noteworthy example is the question of whether the fetus is a creature with the right to life.
Pro lifers will say that the criterion for who has a right to life is human beings, and that fetuses clearly fall within that category.
Pro choicers will argue that the criterion for who has a right to life is persons, meaning creatures with the mental capacity to be self aware and possess a concept of self that continues through time.
Fetuses clearly fall outside that category.
Both sides seem plausible enough, yet both sides have symmetrical problems.
The anti abortion premise is subject to scope problems because the class of the biologically human includes also human cancer cells for example, which clearly don't have a right to life.
Is also subject to moral relevance problems because the link between a biological species and morality is simply assumed here.
On the other hand, the pro abortion premise is also subject to scope problems as it leaves out infants the mentally challenged, and we do seem to think that they have a right to life.
It's also subject to moral relevance problems because the link between a psychological attribute to morality can also be quite effectively challenged.
Next came the issue of thompson's violinist argument, which says basically that even if the fetus does have a right to life, the women's rights to choose over her own body is tantamount.
But is it though?
Even if they, even if the woman, and not the fetus, is the one whose body is being used here, which is essentially what thompson is saying, it is the fetus, and not the woman, that would have to suffer the consequences.
So in the question of the right to like body autonomy, versus the right to life, we believe that there can be no clear solution.
This leads us to ask the question from a somewhat different angle: what we would like to ask is ahmm what's so wrong about killing?
If we can show that whatever is, whatever it is that's wrong with killing you or me applies perfectly to abortions, we think that we can settle this debate.
Because we're kind of hoping that opposition wouldn't argue that it would be permissible to kill you or me.
So, we say something quite simple.
We think that the thing that makes killing someone so wrong has nothing to do with the life and experiences that that someone has already lived through, but rather with the future experiences that we deprive from him, because now he's dead.
Why is this so important?
Because note this means that it has nothing to do with that someone's mental capacity at the point in time in which I killed him, but rather his potential capacity to appreciate and enjoy things in life later on.
That is the only thing that we are really changing by killing someone, and so this must be what's considered bad with killing.
Please note that an abortion has the exact same effect and therefore shares the exact same negativity as killing you or me, because we are depriving fetuses of the future ability, and future opportunities to go through experiences that they will appreciate and will enjoy.
So because we don't think that killing you or me should be morally permissible we beg you to propose.