As far as we are concerned we need to separate between two things here.
The first is the government's position that it's okay to force organ donations from living people.
We find that quite simply insane.
The second is the position that it's okay for the government to take organs from people post mortem.
We find that a more interesting position but we're going to show why this is unjustified as well.
Let's start from the first thing.
So the logic of the government here is utilitarian logic at its purest form.
Seeing as the sick person has more utility to gain from your kidney than you do, and his benefit outweighs your harm, then he should have the claims for it and you don't have a say in the matter.
That that is the ethical thing to do.
Here are a few problems that arise from this line of thinking.
A, let's conjure up the next thought experiment: five dying people are lying at the hospital.
The first awaits a heart transplant, the second a lung transplant, the third needs pancreas donation, the third needs kidney donation and the fifty needs a liver donation.
All of them will surely die unless they are getting their transplant in the upcoming days but there are no donors in sight.
According to the logic of side government it seems that it would be legitimate to just come up to a healthy innocent man, kill him and then transplant his organs in all of the five dying people.
It cost us one life, but hey we were able to save five.
Utilitarians would have to agree, right?
I hope that everyone understands that this logic is making cold blooded murder justified.
Second problem, what happens if a person isn't too worried about his own health?
He smokes heavily for years, he eats unhealthy food, he drinks a lot of alcohol and he doesn't exercise and therefore at the age of fifty he needs a liver transplant.
As it happens I, who do take care of myself and stay in shape and refrain from unhealthy stuff, was found suitable to be a donor.
Even if as far as utility goes, he has more to gain from my liver right now, why should I be responsible and suffer the consequences for his like disregard for his own health?
Third thing that we can say that arises from it, is that we can actually say that this policy endorses careless lifestyles exactly because the cost of living recklessly falls on someone else's head.
Fourth thing is we can't help but wonder, what about money?
How is it that our utilitarian proposition don't have anything to say on whether it's legitimate to take from wealthy citizens most of their life savings in order to help people without money?
If they are for it, guess what, it's called communism, it's been tried before and it doesn't work so well.
Now let's move on to discuss what's so horrible about forcing people to donate organs after their deaths.
Here without a doubt the utilitarian argument becomes more challenging because then people truly don't have interests that we can harm.
As we are very much like we as we very much endorse people to sign declarations and enter donors lists we still say that it is it is unjustified to force this upon everybody.
Why?
A, too many many people especially in religious communities, the idea of maintaining their body integrity is fundamental to the way they see the world.
These people believe that such procedures are wrongful intervention in god's plans and that if their donor if their organs are going to be removed from their bodies, even if it is done after their deaths, they can spend forever in hell.
If like telling them what what do you care you'll no longer be alive, it doesn't stick here because what happens in the afterlife is the entire point.
To these people knowing that they will reach heaven means more to them than any other thing that happens to them in this lifetime.
They are sometimes even willing to die for their beliefs.
Knowing that there's a chance that their organs are going to be removed means a lifetime of agony to these people, to millions of people.
An agony that, as far as they're concerned, is worse than death itself.
Second thing to say here is that we think that families are a valid consideration.
It is incredibly cruel to come up to a mother that's just lost her son and is forced to go through the entire pain of having to bury him and demand that she allow for her son's body, which is all she has left of him, to be used as a tool box.
For all of these reasons please oppose this motion.