Recall elections are beneficial.
Public representatives get their principled mandates, to each and every action that they make.
From the fact that the public has supported them, and wanted them there to take decisions in their name.
A representative that, doesn't enjoy the support of a big enough group inside the public, operates without such mandates, and lacks the legitimacy to take decisions in the name of that public.
We are place setting this debate in the united states, and the mechanism that we're going to define is one in which, after a petition that, calls for the impeachment of this representative, successfully collect signatures of, let's say twenty five percent of the eligible voters, and election is being held, in which the public have to choose between this representative, and another candidate from the same party.
Whoever gets more votes is the one that continues in office.
First argument: the problem with support less officials.
So, congress members in the united states serve for two year terms, and senators serve for six year terms.
We say that during such a time period, much can happen.
Be it because, you know, corruption stories are being exposed, or scandals on their private lives, or just because it turns out that a certain representative has acted against what he promised in his campaign, or it just turned out that he's completely incompetent, or doesn't fit the job, it's not impossible to imagine a situation, or a scenario, in which the support that a certain official enjoyed from during the election gets curtailed.
At this point we have a situation, in which representatives, that the people aren't interested in, are taking decisions in the name of the people, that affect the people.
Now, seeing as politicians essentially work for the people, we think that the people, that get directly affected from their decisions, have every right to make up their minds when it comes to who is worthy of taking these decisions for them.
Just like I have the right to fire an employee, that I'm not happy with, and employ someone else in his stead, even if originally I chose to hire this guy, and we signed a contract.
But even more basic than that: it is clear that I have a right to fire an employee, that I found out that has been embezzling in the company's money, right?
And clearly, I have a right to fire an employee after I found out that he's been lying to me during the job interview, or in his CV.
We think that's completely analogous to cases in which, politicians have turned out to be corrupt, or that they broke campaign promises.
We say that, this is opposition's burden in this debate, to explain to us why is it that, the initial choice that we made during an election, have to be binding also in such cases, and that people just have to suck it up.
Second argument, holding our representatives accountable.
There is nothing more dangerous than a politician, that feels that he doesn't need to answer to his public.
Now, it's true that, for many legislators, they are seeking reelection, and therefore they do have an incentive to stay fair.
But, there are also many of them who don't seek reelection.
Many representatives that, for them just one one term is enough, right?
Or, that they know that, this is going to be their last term in public office.
To these people, as soon as they get elected, there's a classic agency problem: they know that now they have, let's say, six years, in which it hardly matters what they're going to do, and they get to stay, and and reserve their seat, and their high paycheck, and all of the benefits that comes with being a senator.
In such a situation, the rational incentive, that they have, is to do as little as possible.
We know that problem in cases of people that enjoy tenure, for instance, in their job places and their in, like, and their effectiveness suddenly drops.
So, in cases of politicians, this is especially pernicious, because you know ineffectiveness doesn't just harm the workplace, it harms the entire public.
For all these reasons we're proud to propose.