Slum tourism does more harm than good.
Poor people are not exhibits and impoverished favelas aren't museums.
Even if slum tours help raise a few extra dollars they can never be worth the price the residents are forced to pay in dignity.
Two arguments coming from this speech: first on the good that comes out of these tours, and second on the harm that comes out of these tours and then we'll be able to compare.
So first argument: opposition will undoubtedly wanna talk about how the tourists help in develop these areas.
They will tell you that the money that these tourists bring with them and they spend on food and on like, residence, trickles to the entire area, and they will tell you that this is the only way to expose people and raise public awareness to the conditions in which those people live.
And that all sounds very nice and obviously it's true to an extent, but we dare ask: exactly how much money are we talking about?
Is it enough money in order to really bring a significant improvement in the living conditions of any of these residents?
We highly highly doubt it.
Not to mention that a huge part of the, if not most, of the revenues go directly to the pocket of the companies that arrange for the tours and are profiting from the poverty and from the misery of the local people.
We also ask what is exactly the virtue of this exposure or or this awareness?
How many of these tourists are actually going to do something about it as soon as they go back to their comfortable living-rooms, except for of course showing their friends some pictures and feel oh so very authentic?
Also, we say that there are other alternatives that help in bringing exposure and raising awareness without all of the disadvantages that we will discuss later.
I'm talking about publications of human rights institutions and international institutions like the UN for instance.
We're talking about documentaries that are a result of a profound study and not just a short visit.
Even commercial movies such as slumdog millionaire for instance that unravel the reality in these places in a more complicated and nuance way, and in a less superficial way.
Do they work perfectly?
Of course not, but we have no good reason to think that slum tourism works better.
In short we think that to say that slum tourism is doing anything in order to help the residents of these slums, is the equivalent of saying that whoever goes to visit safaris in africa is really participating and taking an active role in protecting the wildlife from poachers for instance.
We say that spending some money isn't really helpful in uplifting people from poverty, and we're saying that more awareness isn't worth jack shit if it's not being translated to action.
So, the utility in the crushing majority of cases is extremely marginal.
What is exactly the harm that arises from these tours?
Obviously there are huge differences between different types of tours and different types of tourists and different types of locals and everyone has his own approach, but what's inherently true is that these tours have the inevitable dynamics of observer and observed.
The tourists bring their cameras and they walk around and "oh" from every shack and every broken window in a way in which the locals cannot help but to feel the stark contrast between their wealth and their own poverty.
This is a humiliating feeling.
We say that there is a difference between knowing that knowing that these differences exist and, you know, seeing the fancy rich neighborhoods, and between actually seeing those rich people come to your house and point at you with pity.
This is a feeling that no extra ten bucks can ever pass away.
Please pay attention that that this is not a matter of the type of tourists, or how nice there they are, or how good their intentions are.
This is a subjective matter that is inherent to the zoo dynamic of these slum tourists, and it continues to happen each and every day.
And therefore in conclusion, when we come to weigh between the benefits and harms, we think that slum tourism brings a lot more harm.
Please propose.