We should legalize prostitution.
Basically, we're talking about the dutch model, prostitution is going to be legal, it's going to be closely regulated by the state, prostitutes will have work permits, they will receive regular medical exams for free, and full social rights, and so on.
The first argument that I will make is about better conditions to prostitutes.
So, we think that the main problem that exists with prostitutes, in the status quo, is not with the act itself, of delivering paid sexual services, but with what comes with it.
We're talking about violent customers, non sanitary conditions, not to mention a truly horrid phenomena, like human trafficking, rape, that are sadly a big part of this world.
Sense we all understand, that prostitution is not something that just disappears the moment that it's being outlawed, and we think that one of the most important questions is how do we allow the women who are working as prostitutes the best possible conditions, and bring to a minimum the ugly side effects that were mentioned earlier.
Perhaps the first thing that we need to talk about is choice versus coercion.
Because, side opposition cannot win this debate, by merely saying that women are coerced to become prostitutes, and therefore it mustn't be legal.
Because, choice is never binary.
It's never like you either have choice, or you don't.
It is always a spectrum, and yes, many women in in prostitution don't have too many options to choose from, as other women might have.
But this is also true to a ton of other professions, in which like which we don't bad.
Cleaning stairways, being a construction worker, so on.
Moreover, even if you wish to call it coercion, it exists equally on both sides of this debate.
At least on our side, this option is significantly less horrible.
Secondly, obviously the fact that from now on prostitution will be held under the open eye of the government solves plenty of the problems, that I that I've discussed earlier.
Today, clients allow themselves to be violent to prostitutes, because they know that these prostitutes will never turn to the police and report them, because they're too afraid of being arrested.
Tomorrow, we don't have that problem.
Today, many times conditions are non sanitary, because this needs to be done in hiding.
Tomorrow, this problem is solved, and there there's someone that supervises, and makes sure that conditions are appropriate.
In short, women tomorrow will be way better off in prostitution.
Second argument, why will this not harm the status of women in society?
So it can be argued by opposition that there is something inherently wrong with sex services, that mainly women give to men, because of the implication that this has on the status of women in society, and the feminist struggle.
We think, actually, that it's exactly the opposite way around.
The struggle for the liberation of women must be obligated to the concept of allowing women full autonomy and control over their own bodies.
It is not for the state, or for anyone else, to determine whether I can sell my body or not.
This premise, that all prostitutes are just poor ladies that had to do this, and we mustn't therefore consider their own personal judgment, is incredibly paternalistic and even quite chauvinistic.
So, in fact it is the legalization of prostitution that goes hand in hand with the feminist struggle.
And for all these reasons, we beg you to support the motion.