It is essential that we start by saying that we do not have anything against allowing as many people as possible access to the internet.
Our objection in this debate is not of the practical level but rather merely and solely on the principled one.
Here is where government's side is trying to confuse you: they tell you that everyone has a right to get access to things such as education and transportation because this is the only way to facilitate certain basic civil liberties.
But pay attention that that does not mean that people have a right to get their education from an ivy league university, or own a private car.
Even though these things are going to allow for a better actualization of the very liberties that education and transportation allow.
This means that even if the government is in fact obligated to supply its citizens the ability to certain fulfillment of a liberty, it does not follow that it is obligated to to allow him the optimal or maximal fulfillment of that liberty.
This would be something that we shall name privilege, and it is in fact in many ways the complete opposite of a basic right.
So, what does eitan have to say specifically about the internet itself?
First he talks about the freedom of speech and how most of public discourse happens online, but following what I said in my opening, this is just not the relevant question.
That's just like saying that most people use their freedom of movement today in order to, you know, fly off to a vacation abroad.
This doesn't mean that if someone isn't able to partake in that type of activity, then this necessarily means that his freedom of movement is being infringed upon.
So long as these people can voice their opinions in the street and still find an audience that listens to them, then as far as the government goes, and the government's obligation to supply people with the basic facilitation of rights, we say that that this is good enough.
We simply disagree with the assertion according to which access to facebook is the most fundamental, you know, form of participation in freedom of speech.
Just like we do not believe that the government is obligated to, you know, supply every person with a megaphone that allows for as many people as possible to hear him.
Next eitan goes on to talk about the equality of opportunity.
Here we have a different problem.
We simply don't agree that equality of opportunity is a basic right that the government is obligated to give you from the first place.
It is true for the simple reason that it this is literally physically impossible to commit to such a thing.
People are born in very different starting points, ridiculously different starting points in life that create a very stark inequality in opportunity.
Now even if that is something that we could have somehow taken care of, people are still being born with very different sets of skills and abilities that also create huge differences in, like, and inequalities in opportunities and there is nothing that we can do about that.
So, all of these things will undoubtedly affect the job places that each person finds for himself with or without the internet.
Therefore as far as equality, we say that the very best that the government can and in fact should offer is you know complete equality before the law.
That's it.
Again, this does not mean that the government shouldn't aspire to improve the equality of opportunity by providing you know wide access to internet.
This simply means that this would be principally wrong to see this as something that a person can demand from his government as a basic right that is worthy of protection.
For all these reasons please oppose