We heard from side government some harms that they see in the institute of marriage.
But we didn't get a clear definition of what it means, outdated.
We understand this to mean something that has no more value.
That doesn't serve any valuable function.
Therefore we are not going to try and argue that marriage are a perfect problem free institution.
But rather that it is still necessary in order to serve a valuable function in society, and therefore it cannot be outdated.
Before that, rebuttal.
So, the first thing we hear is that marriage leads to less happiness because it's not in our nature to be tied down to a single significant other.
Our answer to this is first of all, while there are definitely a lot of people that are in unhappy marriages or that end up divorcing, obviously there are also a lot of people who live in very happy marriages and whose wedding was the most happiest moment of their lives.
And so it's very hard to quantifiably determine, like the previous speaker does, that necessarily this brings more unhappiness than happiness.
But second of all, we are going to argue that the goal or the function that marriage as an institution serves, has nothing to do with causing happiness.
And therefore is independent of like the need for you to to lead happy marriages.
Quite the contrary.
Marriage is is meant exactly for the moment where things go wrong.
The second point of rebuttal is that like they tell us that marriage are lead to the exclusion of certain groups like the LGB LGBT group, and that originally in its roots this institution was oppressive towards women.
So as to the first part, we simply don't have to defend the institute in its strictest, traditional form.
We agree that all sexual groups need to be included and we think that this institution has evolved, like we've seen in the united states in the past year, and will continue to evolve in order to include more and more groups that have so far been neglected.
As to the second part, while it might may be true, again we don't care about the original purpose.
We do care about the current function of this institution today and we are going to argue that it does exactly the opposite of depressing or oppressing women.
It is what defends them and protect them many times from being oppressed.
So what is this valuable function?
We say that the institute of marriage protects the weaker side in cases of breakups.
In many cases there is asymmetry between between two partners where one party takes upon himself more of the house works and obviously in almost all of the cases we are talking about the woman.
Whereas the man gets to specialize in his career and he is the chief provider.
Now you could say that this is not okay and the status quo needs to be changed.
Then it's oppressive to women.
But this is just the reality for many couples.
And it actually stems from a very like rational sound economic logic where each side just focuses on where he has the the relative advantage.
Anyway we think that the wealth and property that the couple have amassed during the years are products of a mutual effort.
And therefore they should belong to both parties equally.
However, in effect, what happens is that the men holds ownership over the house, over the car and so on, and in cases of break up he can simply take everything, including of course his high salary and leave the woman without anything.
So here marriage play a role as a legal contract that allows the women the the women to get reimbursed.
And it allows us as a society to make sure that we are protecting women from these types of situations.
Had it not been for the marriage, if the couple will weren't married, then we couldn't have the legal authority to do anything.
Therefore marriage are still very very much relevant.