We should ban homeopathy.
By this we mean banning the sale and advertising as medicine of anything that wasn't scientifically tested and had been proven to withstand objective standards of empirical success.
We think that not only does homeopathy like not only is this a sham that flat-out lies to its followers, but it also targets the most vulnerable, the most desperate and uninformed people, and prevents them from finding better alternatives that might actually help them overcome their ailment, and by this might actively risk lives.
And therefore it's not only within our rights to ban it, but it is also within our duty to ban it.
First argument, on false advertising.
So this argument is very simple, and it just says that I'm not allowed to advertise a product in a way that contains misinformation.
I cannot say that this product has been proven to be the best in the market or that it contains certain ingredients, without it actually being a hundred percent accurate description of reality, because this is deception and it leads people to spend money on a product that, had they known had they had known what it is, they would not want to buy it.
Homeopathy is exactly that.
It claims to have certain healing effects or medical effects that it simply doesn't have according to an overwhelming consensus within the scientific community.
And it is also, like, it boasts in containing all sorts of active ingredients, where in reality those ingredients have been diluted so much that there's barely a trace left of them.
This is plainly deceitful, and already enough of a reason to ban it.
But secondly, let's take the hardest case for us that we possibly can.
Let's say that there was no matter of false advertising here, and also let's assume that there are many people who do believe in the curative power of homeopathy, and preventing them from accessing it would be, you know, in violation of their free choice.
Why do we still believe that this is legit?
Well, because we think that in many cases this specific choice is not done in an informative and rational matter, but rather is subjected to immense pressure, because we're dealing with people who are sick, that feel pain, and that in many cases conventional medicine isn't helpful enough for them, and they are looking for everything that they can possibly grab and hold onto.
This is the perfect target audience for many homeopaths, and these people are incredibly susceptible to misinformation that provides them with hope.
We think that this is deeply immoral to take advantage of people that are, like, in those situations and and sell false hope to them in a form of a magical voodoo medicine.
Oftentimes people put so much of their faith in homeopaths, that they are used as a substitute for an actual doctor, and an actual treatment that might have actually helped them.
Note, we understand that not all cases are like this, and that there are cases of people that for whatever reason just choose to believe in homeopathy without being, like, under any sort of duress.
But since we do not have a way of distinguishing between this group and the previous group, we much rather just ban homeopathy altogether, even at the price of limiting the choices of a small group of very strange people.
For all of these reasons, we are proud to propose.