The teacher tenure reform brings more good than harm.
We think that both sides of this debate can easily agree that good teachers, meaning professional caring teachers that do their best in order to get their students to succeed, are a good thing.
Therefore the team that is able to show that there are more such teachers on her side of the house, would be the team that wins this debate.
First argument, tenure creates an agent problem.
An agent problem is a situation in which the outcomes of your actions are not felt by you but by someone else, and this endorses you to act in a way that is best for you, but not necessarily good for whoever is affected by your actions.
Now, teaching is a very hard profession, in which it is very easy to grow exhausted, weary over time.
You have to get up every morning and face a group of children that the last thing that they want to do on earth is sit and cooperate and listen to what you came to teach them, no matter how much time and thought you have put into how you mean to pass this lesson.
You also have to use sanctions, you have to shout sometimes, you have to take some kids out of the classroom.
You have to explain the same things over and over and over again for years on end.
All of these things are things that can easily make even the most devoted people, that came with a vision of wanting to educate the youth, lose their motivation somewhere along the way, and just succumb to this mediocre routine at best, and sometimes even this can be lead seriously, let's say, unpleasant performance at worse.
At this point, an extra incentive is required in order to maintain a high level of functioning and, you know, to maintain teachers that care about the success of of the kids.
Now, the most clear incentive in these types of cases is knowing that if you don't do a good job you can be replaced.
Therefore you are always required to bring your a game, and the class profits.
What happens that as soon as tenure gets into play, is that this incentive disappears, and instead comes a certainty that no matter how you're going to perform, you you cannot be replaced.
Now this actively creates an opposite incentive.
The most rational thing that you can do is the bare minimum effort.
This is how you also gain, like, income as well as leisure.
Now that is a classic agent problem, and we think that especially, in difficult professions like teaching, it is very likely that it is going to result in very bad employees, meaning very bad teachers.
Second argument.
Abusive teachers.
We say that teachers have a lot of power.
They get to spend many hours every day with young children that are often very powerless to do or to say anything about them.
Sadly, many times this type of power can get people to act quite cruelly, and use this power in order to, you know, make themselves feel big by belittling others.
Opposition are going to try and tell you that really abusive teachers are going to be let go with or without tenure.
But we don't have to talk about the most extreme cases.
It's enough to talk about teachers that say demeaning comments about children, that comment on their appearance or their gender or the ability that they show in the classroom.
It's enough to talk about teachers that scream all the time for no good reason.
Almost all of us know at least one good example for such a teacher.
Now, as soon as a teacher has tenure, it is unclear that we could do something about it.
We say that good teachers are likely to stay in the system even without tenure, because they get good feedbacks, because there's going to be like no good reason to let them go.
But we say that it is it is specifically the bad teachers that profit from getting tenure.
For all of these reasons, we are proud to propose.