We should abolish the needle exchange program.
The info slide suggests that all the findings of research into this program were incredibly positive and prove definitely that these programs help reduce HIV contraction while not increasing the drug addiction problem.
So as far as I'm aware real life findings are much more ambivalent.
Some are indeed very positive, while some studies came up with opposite results.
Therefore, what I do is in the first argument just ignore empirical findings since these are not conclusive and therefore unhelpful.
And so I'll just give a logical explanation of why I believe these programs are not reducing the contraction problem.
In my second argument I'll explain why, even if this actually does help produce infections, this is still unjustified as it increases the levels of users.
Right.
So we need to break this down to two separate questions.
The first: does this program help reduce the level of HIV infection or other diseases transmitted via used syringes like hepatitis and so on.
Again we are ignoring data here, not to get confused by conflicting evidence and just trying to think logically.
So on the first look it may seem like the answer to the first question is yes since this program helps remove from circulation used and possibly infected syringes and replaces them with fresh new ones.
However if we think about it for a second like more in depth it doesn't take more than one time that I'm using an infected syringe to catch a disease right?
So for this logic to work we need to assume that this program prevents users entirely from using dirty syringes.
This would mean that before every injection I would have to go to a clinic and change my gear or that each person would have to have his own personal syringe that never changes hands.
But that clearly isn't the case.
We think that at best like in the best case scenario addicts go and change needles like once a week, every couple of days maybe.
But of course real addicts use syringes much more frequently than that.
So while this program does help addicts keep their syringes relatively less old and rusty, it's highly questionable that it is able to effectively reduce the level of diseases transmitted via used syringes since it only takes one time that I've used an like an infected syringe.
So in the second question is does this program create more drug abusers or not?
And when it comes to the matter of endorsing more drug abuse I believe the logical answer is obviously yes.
We need to understand that not all injecting drug users are the same.
Some are addicted to the point where they are barely functional and basically beyond saving or rehabilitating sadly.
Some are more functional and can with greater probability be rehabilitated.
The users who will bother showing up to exchange needles belong to the second group.
They are the ones who will be more aware of the risks and care enough to actively try and avoid them.
These users are torn between their addiction on one hand and their wish to stay alive and healthy on the other.
What they need is for society to show them the right way and support them in their attempts to go clean.
Not for us to come up with what appears like a magical solution that allows them both.
This way we are tricking them into thinking that they can have their cake and eat it.
They can be both addicted and healthy.
This is a false and dangerous illusion to be selling them and the comparative isn't necessarily them just catching HIV, but quite possibly them checking themselves into some institution or narcotics anonymous group or something that may help them become healthy, productive citizens.
The needle exchange program offers no such future and is mutually exclusive with it.
For these reasons we need to abolish it.