We believe that any place that's business model is primarily based on using people's weaknesses in order to squeeze and extort as much money as possible from them clearly does more harm than good.
Two points in the speech first about the direct negative effects of casinos to the gamblers themselves and the second on the more peripheral effects that are a by product that comes with casinos.
First argument: pay attention that this motion is phrased in in a way that we needn't answer the principled question of whether gambling should be legal or are they okay.
The more interesting question here is mostly whether they bring more harm or benefit.
And on the simplest level we can do the next thing.
Let's see what is the aggregate sum of benefit that arises from specifically like the gambling in the casinos and we say that that basically sums up to a huge huge profit to the already very rich owners of the casinos.
Not a great benefit.
And like occasionally one in a thousand people that that is able to make a significant profit from casinos, a lot of people that on average are basically breaking even and a huge amount of people that are losing money.
Some of them lose small amounts, some of them lose very large amounts, some of them can afford it, some of them really can't.
So comparatively we believe that then that the damage that is being caused to the people that lose money far outweighs the benefits that is being caused to the people who gain it, both on a quantitative scale and on a qualitative one.
More over the way in which most casinos operate is one that that applies psychological manipulations that are meant to cause the guests to recklessly spend more and more.
There are no windows or clocks on the walls, the lights are always on and shining bright so that you lose track of time, you have beautiful ladies walking around, alcoholic beverages, so on, so forth and so many people are simply drawn into it without the ability to resist or to think rationally and end up finding themselves leaving the casino greatly indebted.
Second arguments, the peripheral effects: we think that the first argument is already enough to show that there is huge harm that comes from it but then you are without a doubt going to hear arguments about the tourism that casinos bring and brings to the country in all of the jobs that comes with it and that is that like a could great way to liven up an area.
And while we agree that this might be true, we think that we cannot we we we can't not address some of the negative effects that come with a casino.
We are talking about extensive drug consuming, talking about prostitution, and these things simply go hand in hand with the atmosphere of fast money and of gambling.
Now this usually attracts a pretty dubious crowd.
Sadly all we need to do is look at the the the israeli populations that population that goes in charter planes to casinos in bulgaria and on reports of the amounts of damage that they leave afterwords to the hotels that they stay, and to the restaurants that they stay in and so on so we think that there is definitely such a thing as a negative tourism and so even if it still pays off in some level, this pay off isn't great.
So if we consider all of the harm that we have showed is being caused to the gamblers themselves, there is no way that we can like take much consolation in the money that casinos bring into the country and altogether we see that casinos bring much more harm than they do good.
Propose