Side government assumes that which requires proof.
The previous speaker literally justifies his criterion for who has a right to life by first asking to see who that criterion applies to, and then conveniently selects the criterion that doesn't preclude groups that he himself has decided that ought to be, you know, defensible and, you know, conveniently selects the criterion that fits with the side that he has to defend in this debate.
We're very sorry but that's not how you build a moral argument.
That is the definition of circular logic.
We haven't heard one objective, true justification as to why is it that human beings or, more precisely, the biological species of homo sapiens is what merits protection of rights.
Why, for instance, do animals fall outside of this criterion?
No reason.
So, on top of that, if the government really wishes to argue that a fetus has an equal right to life just like a living human being, then this basically says that an abortion is nothing short of murder.
If that's what they're arguing, why are they okay with abortions that had resulted from acts of rape?
If they really want to run a brave case, they have to be brave from beginning to end.
So in short, the entire government's logic suffers from a lack of coherency and a lack of clarity.
Here's what we bring to you in this debate: the doctrine of double effect, and it's really quite simple.
We see that even if we accept that the fetus has a right to life because of his potentiality for life or because of his inability to advocate for himself or for any other reason, the cost that this right to life like charges from the woman is just too great and too grave for us to demand that she doesn't violate that right.
Let's conjure up the next thought experiment.
If either one of us, let's say the previous speaker, would have woken up to find out that he's been attached to an innocent human beings human being in such a way that that human being's life is dependent on him staying attached by a cable or something to him and that cable not being disengaged, you would have to carry that person around with you everywhere you go, make sure he's fed, you'd have to quit smoking, quit drinking alcohol.
You'd have to stop going to work at some stage, to suffer pain and sicknesses and then, after nine whole months of this, you would have to go through an excruciating process that is that leaves your body forever disfigured and different.
We say that if all of this would have happened to you, you would have been forced to say that even though the person attached to you has the full extent of the right to life, it wouldn't be it wouldn't have been a crime for you to disengage that cable.
It wouldn't have been a crime because the cost on your liberty is just too big.
For all of these reasons, we call you to support women's choice and to oppose to this motion.