We should ban cosmetic surgery.
We are making an important distinction here, between reconstructive cosmetic surgeries, that were meant to restore looks that were damaged as a as a result of an accident, or a disease of some sort, or that were meant to fix some specifically and recognized disfigurement, and cosmetic surgery, that we would call redecorative, that are only meant to make someone more attractive.
So, skin transplants to someone that was burned in a fire, yes.
A like, surgery for a kid that suffers from a cleft lip, yes.
Breast transplant, rhinoplasty, no.
We fully understand that this ban might harm certain people, that don't feel well with their bodies, and so on.
But we think, that in order to avoid the huge harms that result from the way in which this industry was blown out of proportion, it is worth this harm.
First point, like, at the end of the day this is an intrusive surgical procedure with a significant amount of risk.
This is something that not many people understand.
We tend to think of it as a very simple procedure, without too many , you know, health repercussions, but it's actually not true.
First of all, there can be a lot of negative side effects, and implications to your health.
Quite often, this is a procedure that that like, a great deal of long lasting physical pains follow from it.
There are a lot of cases where the body rejects the the transplants, and this leads to health complications, and so on.
Secondly, just like any other form of surgery, there are a lot of accidents, where, this, like the the operation isn't successful, and the outcomes aren't as expected.
Thirdly, we start seeing a growing phenomenon of people that get addicted to plastic surgeries.
So, it's mainly people that grow old, and find themselves undergoing one surgery after another, you know, responding to each complication with one surgery, with just signing into a second surgery, and so on, and so on, and they end up spending a fortune, in in the process.
In this point, we have to already stop for a second, and notice that we have something here, that even if it can cause a lot of people, you know, to feel good with themselves, it leads to addictions in many people.
It causes a huge amount of physical harm, that this starts to sound like the worst types of drugs possible.
Drugs, that are obviously banned in the status quo.
Second point, cosmetic surgeries feed into, and intensify the model of beauty, that is already much much too prevalent in society.
Telling people that there is a certain way that they should look like, and creating immense emotional harms, often even leading to horrible mental disorders, like anorexia or bulimia.
The more people can, like, the more that people can afford the can afford going and enhancing their bodies or their faces, this also creates immense pressure on people, other people, that don't have you know perfect physique, or a perfect profile, to go and do the same thing, even if they were less bothered by it initially, and felt okay with themselves, and even if, for them, this is already quite a heavy expense.
Instead of teaching people that they should love themselves as they are, we are teaching people that they should you know locate flaws, and go and fix them.
And one final point, because medic surgery industry like became a huge money making monster, doctors understood that there's plenty of money to be made by this, and this causes plenty of bad things.
First, many young talented promising doctors choose to specialize in this, and not in actual life saving medicine, which we think is far more important, but less profitable.
Secondly, because this happens in private clinics, they have an incentive to endorse their clients to undergo more and more surgeries, because this means more money.
Therefore, they will never tell their patients that there's no reason for him to go through surgery.
This deepens all of the harms that we've mentioned before.
The only solution to this problem is to have a blanket ban on cosmetic surgeries.
Please propose.