We should prohibit international adoption.
This means that a couple that wish to adopt a child, will only be able to adopt a child that comes from the same country where they reside in, and wouldn't be able to import, so to speak, an orphan child from a different country.
We will have two arguments in this speech.
The first is about the need to prioritize our local orphan children, and the second is about helping older orphan children.
So the first argument goes like this.
Most families don't actually go and adopt a child every other tuesday, right?
So, we have to assume that each child that's being adopted through international adoption, comes at the expense of a local orphan child that doesn't get to have a new family.
And so we must ask ourselves, are we in some way obligated to help out, first and foremost, our own orphan children in our country, or need we worry equally about every orphan child in the world.
On side government, we believe in the former option.
We think that belonging to a certain nation means something.
We believe that it comes with a certain collective responsibility to stick out for one another.
We believe that as citizens, and as members of a certain community or a certain society, we have a prior obligation to help out the needy in our own society.
Now, this doesn't mean that other children don't matter equally, objectively speaking.
This just means that we need not always be objective about things.
Just like a father has the first and foremost obligation to protect and feed and take care of his own children before he worries about other children, even though, obviously, all children matter equally, and even though the fact that he is their children specifically is completely arbitrary.
But still, we don't we don't really expect of him to think about this objectively.
So the same goes here.
The second argument is about helping older orphan children.
So, one of the most well-known problems with regard to adoption is that parents tend to prefer to adopt babies over somewhat older children.
Many parents fear that older children, and I'm talking about like four five six year olds, will be harder to control, or will carry too much baggage with them.
And so what happens is if you are an orphan child, and you weren't lucky enough to be like winning an adoption within your first couple of years, then you enter this sort of spiral where every day that goes by, your chances are getting slimmer and slimmer, and we think that this is horrible.
If we stop allowing parents to adopt babies internationally, and the supply, so-called, of orphan babies will drop, this increases the chances of these somewhat older orphan orphan children in our country to get a family.
This gives them a fighting chance, and we believe that this is crucial.
So, for both of these reasons, we are proud to propose this motion.