We should ban bullfighting.
The fact that some habit became a tradition holds no weight when asking whether this tradition is morally justified or not, or else gladiators and slavery would would still be legal today.
Our standards of what we consider moral or immoral evolve over time, and that's a good thing.
The slaughter of helpless animals just for the sake of entertainment should never be considered art.
It should never be considered amusing or beautiful.
It's a gruesome act of brutality and it needs to be abolished as soon as possible.
We're going to talk about two things today.
Firstly, why bullfighting is unacceptable in and of itself and secondly, on the dangerous effects of normalizing violence.
First argument: we believe that all animals, including bulls for that matter, have a right to be protected from unnecessary unnecessary cruelty.
For some reason, we have a very deep double standard in society when it comes to animals.
We would be very upset if we see someone just kick a cat in the street, but we have no problem eating a steak a moment later.
We're not getting into the entire meat argument here but the point is we would all agree that physical pain and suffering is a bad thing, no matter who feels it.
It's just that some old habits took root and then we don't think about them in the same way that we think of very similar things.
A bull is a sentient being.
It feels pain, it's afraid of dying.
Bullfighting creates a huge amount of pain and misery in the world, and we should immediately ask ourselves whether there's some vastly important reason for this.
What can justify this?
Unfortunately, there is absolutely no crucial vital need that this custom answers for, except that it's entertaining to some people.
But since when does the personal amusement of the abuser a good enough justification for the abuse?
We can argue whether eating meat or experimenting on animals constitutes a vital need that can justify breaking these animals' rights but in this case, there isn't even a basis to argue about.
There's just no need for this abuse to take place.
Second argument, on the dangerous effects of normalizing violence.
So, opposition might go up and say that watching matadors helps satisfy certain violent urges that people have and so, they won't practice violence to other people in their own personal lives.
We don't believe that you can fight violence with violence.
Indeed, many people have an inclination to be violent, and we believe that bullfighting only endorses them to be more violent.
Why?
Because it makes brutal cruelty a normal thing.
Therefore, it operates directly against all of the psychological mechanism that society instills within us that are meant to make us appalled and deterred deterred from acts of violence.
Specifically for individuals with violent temperament and violent tendencies, this might be dangerous because it allows them less control over these urges, because now they're no longer disgust with violence automatically, which is what we've been trying to to make them like this is what we've been trying to make them feel.
So because it's inherently wrong in and of itself and because it's potentially dangerous, not only for the bulls but also for our human society as well, we are very proud to propose.