We should legalize public nudity.
First argument: there is no such thing as decency.
Sometimes it's easy to forget that eventually we are nothing but animals.
If we take a quick look at the animal kingdom we will see that animals have never never felt ashamed of their naked bodies.
They have never felt the need to cover certain parts of their body up.
This can teach us that the demand for what we today call decency is nothing but a completely random social construct and every link that people try to make between decency and morality is both ridiculous and oppressive.
Another such evidence is that the concept of what's considered decent and what isn't has developed completely differently in different places and different times throughout the world.
There is no definition of decency that has consistently lingered through time.
In certain african tribes it is customary for women to walk around with their bare breasts out in the open, whereas in orthodox societies a woman that so much as exposes her hair is considered indecent.
We would also like to to to shed light on the fact that in the absolute majority of cases it is mostly women that have been forced to withstand the most strictest standards of decency.
Note how up until this very day, even in the most liberal of societies, a man that walks around in public without a shirt is like is often forgiven or like encountered with a lot more patience than a woman that would walk around not wearing a shirt.
How can all of this be explained?
Easily.
We say that decency is a concept that was made up by the strong class in society, as a form of oppression to the weaker class.
It's easy to understand that when we consider the muslim society and burkas for instance.
The idea is that even if today it is no longer so and not necessarily effectively used as a means of oppression, and and even if it applies to to men and women alike, that is the source and the origin of this custom or this norm and there is absolutely no explanation that can be defended rationally.
Second argument: a vital part, like, nudity is a vital part of the freedom of expression and there is no good enough justification to limit it.
So this argument engages with the opposition in case they try to argue that irrespective of the origin of this norm, the fact is that today nudity you know disturbs people and therefore we should ban it to allow everyone access to the public sphere or something like that.
We say that the public sphere, unlike the private sphere, is by definition a dangerous space in which you might encounter things that you will not like.
We say that the mere fact that something bothers you is just not interesting in terms of justifying banning that thing.
And up, and like, up until the point that you are able to prove that some objective damage has taken place, that just doesn't matter that it bothers you.
There are plenty of people that are on the conservative side and they are really bothered by seeing people with that walk around with tattoos, or with a mahican hairdo.
We say that they believe that it's a promiscuous behavior and immoral behavior and that it has a bad effect on their children.
Does opposition really want to consider this as a good enough and like sufficient cause to ban people walking around in public with tattoos and mahican?
We say like, what about people that are bothered by seeing gay couples kissing in the street?
You see, the thing is that once you give weight to what bothers some of the people this necessarily means that you trample over the rights of others, and we believe that walking around naked is a completely legitimate form of expression that conveys a message, and perhaps even a very important criticism over the existing norms that are outdated in society.
We believe that the true test for the level of commitment of a society in protecting the freedom of expression of its citizens is exactly at the point at which a certain form of expression bothers other people.
That is exactly where it matters that we protect it.
Third argument: really quickly, we think that if if there would be more people that walk around naked this will help a lot of other people overcome problems that they experience today with negative body image and insecurity.
We say that the more that you get exposed to other naked bodies in all shapes and colors and forms, you understand that no matter how your body looks like there are plenty of other people just like you, and if they are not ashamed then you have nothing to be ashamed of.
For all of these reasons we're very proud to propose.