Racial profiling is without a doubt unfair, but some things are just more important than fairness, and as long as the system helps us prevent disasters then we are okay with sacrificing an ounce of fairness.
When daniel tells us that that there is like a discrimination here and a violation of rights.
That is true, we simply don't argue, but in favor of protecting lives we many times give up on on protecting people's rights.
Three arguments in the speech and the rest of the rebuttal is going to be integrated inside.
First argument: why is this efficient?
Second, why like fairness versus security?
Third, what are going to be the wide range reprecussions for the population that's being profiled?
First argument.
So the government tells us that this isn't helpful in saving lives because we might miss terrorists or criminals that don't belong to the to the reference group that's being profiled.
We think that this analysis lacks comparativeness.
Of course this isn't a hundred percent successful, but assuming that side government accepts the fact that we need to make thorough security checks for some people in airports, for instance, and assuming that they also accept that it's impossible to thoroughly check everyone and the only alternative is random checks.
So the comparative in regard to like efficiency is between racial profiling and random checks.
If the government truly thinks that it's going to be more efficient if they just randomly check people and they go out against every theory of probability and statistics.
Beyond that, they will also have to explain to us why if they think that profiling based on certain behavioral elements, like showing nervousness, is justified because eventually this is also just a logic like statistical inference and according to their logic, if we only stop people that look that look suspicious for random checks, then we are going to miss all of the dangerous people that didn't look suspicious.
On top of that is also a an element of deterence.
We say that if certain terrorists belonged to a racial group that's being profiled their likelihood of them even trying reduces.
We do not have that effect in a world where there are only random checks.
Bottom line, this is the most efficient method that we have in order to minimize the amount of terror events.
Second argument.
Again, like we're being told that this is a humiliating form of discrimination and we don't even argue.
Our heart goes out to the people being being profiled but eventually the level of intrusion isn't unreasonably high.
We don't like in we don't infiltrate anybody's home.
We simply delay them for a several minutes and at the worst case open their bags.
No doubt that this creates an unpleasant feeling, but that's all.
Moreover, we say that once it's a common practice, then these people grow accustomed to it and this at least diminishes some of the unpleasantness.
So, really without downplaying how unpleasant this this is, we simply say that the cost of like that the benefit of preventing terror is simply worth this cost, simply because lives are being saved.
Third argument.
We think that it's important that we look at the broader consequences for the like population that's being profiled.
The government is arguing something legitimate here and that is that this that this step validifies and strengthens existing stereotypes and creates a situation of like rational racism.
We say that even if it is true, the consequences of a terror event that we were unable to prevent and that comes from like that that's being performed by someone from that minority group is far worse for that community in terms of the public image and the social harm for that minority community.
So, at the point at which we already show you that it is the best way to prevent terror events coming from members of that group, we say that in the bigger picture this helps this community fit in in society more than the alternative.
For all these reasons, we are very proud to oppose.