We should ban smoking.
For some reason that eludes my understanding we have developed a nasty little product that allows people, in exchange for money that they spend, to buy something that slowly kills them.
Not only that, we have made that product highly addictive, physically addictive, so that very quickly people can no longer control it and will be forced to pay more and more money and cause themselves more and more physical harm.
Cigarettes are causing millions of deaths each year and countries are spending astronomical funds each year on health-care costs as a direct result from cigarettes.
Ladies and gentlemen we are at war with tobacco companies and they are winning.
It is time to stop this nonsense.
Two arguments in this speech: first, when is it okay to stop people from hurting themselves, and second, on the effects of this ban on poor people.
First argument: opposition is going to tell you that even if smoking is harmful, it is the right of the citizens in a free society to choose to smoke without the government deciding for them.
Well we we want to ask: what are the boundaries of this principle?
Firstly we'll say that in and of itself this principle is not as firmly withstanding in radical situations.
Meaning when the potential damage is massive and the level of intervention is very little.
The obvious example is of course the fact that we force people to wear a seatbelt.
Is opposition really going to resist to that in the name of individual liberty?
Well we say that with cigarettes it is the same.
Secondly, we'll say that in the case of addictive substances like nicotine this argument gets even weaker because it is much harder to speak about a free choice of the citizens that is being harmed here.
People that are addicted to cigarettes don't have a true choice.
Most of them are dying to quit but they simply can't.
Lastly, if that is not enough then we can talk about the harm that that like the fact that the harm that comes from cigarettes isn't only affecting the smokers, but also has a devastating direct effect on society as a whole because the costs off treatment for smokers burdens everybody.
This is the textbook example of a negative externality.
Therefore we say that for all of these reasons it is completely legitimate for the for society to protect itself against this thing that is trying to attack it.
Second argument: the effects of this ban on poor people.
Another common opposition argument is that the main utility of cigarettes is for citizens of lower incomes, or that have a very tough life because cigarettes much like alcohol provides for them a form of escapism from the from the hardships of their day to day lives.
This is the reason that cigarettes are so popular especially amongst these populations, and therefore taking away from them the ability to smoke would be cruel and unfair.
Well we would like to argue with the exact opposite.
We say that there is nothing crueler than appealing to lower class citizens, making them addicted to an expensive habit that along the years is drawing more and more money from them that could have been spent on warmer clothes or a better education for their children.
We say this has no other name but for a cynical exploitation of their situations.
And it is especially the weaker citizens that we are setting out to protect here.
Please propose.