Marriage is outdated.
I can't think of anything more personal than a relationship between two people.
It is their own private business, not society's and surely not the states.
Marriage are an outdated social construct that no longer fits today's modern society, as the amount of divorces can attest to, as the fact that more and more young couples are seeking alternatives can attest to.
What we're going to do in this speech is discuss two of the most common rationales for the existence of marriage today and explain why they're no longer relevant.
Those rationales are: a, marriage is an artificial barrier from breaking up, and b, marriage are needed to defend the weaker side.
What we won't be discussing is the religious rationale, simply because we think that if two people are religious and they believe that the lord commands this particular ceremony, that it represents their holy and sacred bond or whatever, then we can't really argue with that.
But we think that this isn't what's going through the minds of most married people, so we'll focus on the more common rationales.
So firstly, marriage is an artificial barrier from breaking up.
The idea is basically that people are rash and don't always make the right choices.
What we want is to make sure that if two people decide to separate, then they had to think it over long and hard, and so we're setting artificial barriers in order to discourage them from doing this without proper thought because otherwise, people will just run off to break up and , you know, too easily with the first sign of difficulty and so on.
So society's solution was to have all of your friends and family come and witness you swear to stay together forever.
This raises the bar of embarrassment, that's one artificial barrier.
Another is the legal hardship.
Another is the financial hardship.
All of these things are meant to make it harder for you to break up.
Now why don't we agree with this concept?
Well our answer is threefold.
A: we think it's extremely paternalistic to assume that people can't reach the right decision by themselves on the most private thing that they have in their lives.
We don't think it's society's business, and even if it is the wrong decision for me and I'll get hurt by it, it should be my decision to make, and I shouldn't be considering anyone else's interests in the matter.
B: we think that there are so many natural barriers and obstacles to breaking up that it would be it wouldn't be more efficient to add further barriers.
This is this just makes the lives of whoever does decide to separate much much harder.
Natural barriers, such as the heartache for one, the insecurity of returning to the dating world.
When you live together, there are obviously financial considerations that act as obstacles and, of course, of course, having children which are the most like major barrier from simply separating.
C: if after all of this all of this, people still decide they want to break up, then it probably means that they should that they should break up.
We think it's horrible if the only thing that keeps two people together is that it would be too much of a headache to separate or that it would cost too much money.
But the fact is that in most cases, it doesn't even work, and we can see that the divorce rate is ever-rising.
People still break up.
This isn't what scares them, this just makes their lives more miserable for years on after.
This shouldn't be like it shouldn't be this way.
Second rationale that we're going to answer to is marriage is a defender of the weaker side.
So this argument looks at the legal side of marriage as a contract that's meant for the moment in which the couple decides to separate.
The idea is to like to distribute the property in a fair way that doesn't screw over one side.
Many times both parties don't earn the same amount of money, and most times it's specifically the woman that stays at home and did all of the houseworks and so on, but we tend to rightfully look at the property of the husband and the wife as the product of a mutual like mutual effort.
In order for there to for there not to be one party that gets to keep all the wealth and another that gets none of it after a breakup, we have marriage.
Why is this no longer valid logic?
A: today there are more and more cases of a prenuptial agreement that completely nullify this logic, but b: we think that this is an important thing but we just don't need the actual act of marriage in order for this to happen.
People can still go to court upon separation, and the court can still examine, as is the as is the case today, whether there was actually a mutual effort and decide how to split up the resources, and we can do all of this without the title of being married.
So, because it's stupid to add artificial barriers to breaking up and because it's not really necessary in defending the weaker side, please propose.