Side government think that they're being ethical.
We say that when a person is terminally ill, and each passing day that he continues to live it means excruciating pain, and he begs to the doctor, the only person that can help them end this agony, there is nothing ethical about shutting your ears and hiding behind rules and regulations.
The government keeps referring to assisted suicide as a damaging procedure.
We say that we should look at it as an act of mercy and kindness.
Let's answer their arguments one by one.
So firstly, they say that this is a breach of the medical ethics, because doctors are sworn to do whatever they can to help save lives.
This argument might have worked in cases in which there is still any chance of saving the life of the patient, but what if he is terminally ill?
There is no contradiction here to the oath that doctors take to do everything in order to save lives, because saving their lives is no longer an option.
Now, they tell us that the will of the person plays no part, that society always gets to decide when it comes to health treatment.
This is just not accurate.
Society intervenes only in cases where we have reasons to think that the agency of the person is compromised in a way that doesn't allow for him to make the best decision for himself.
This is why we institutionalize mental patients, this is why we put addicts in rehabilitation programs.
But people in their right minds can definitely turn down treatments, they do this all the time.
You cannot force an adult to go through chemotherapy, for instance, without his consent, even if it's the only way to save his life.
So yeah, the will of the patient definitely plays a vital part.
So, the government tries to tell us that sick people or people that are ill, just like mental patients or addicts, cannot reach the right decision themselves.
But there is no analysis as to why this is true and we simply reject this.
We say that you are the only only one that knows firsthand just how much you suffer from your condition, and therefore it must be your choice to make.
Next, they tell us that there are perverse incentives and, you know, pressure for from the side of insurance agencies on doctors to offer suicide.
We say that this is a problem that can easily be fixed through the right mechanism.
We think that this problem could not have occurred if we would arrange for an a mechanism that says that that this step can only come from the side of the patient, no doctor can ever offer this initially, and that we would have to go through several stages and, you know, committees and whatnot in order to ascertain that you that this is absolutely something that the patient wants and so on.
And lastly, they say that you cannot reach a an educated decision on dying.
But this is just off clash, because this is not a debate on whether suicide is is legitimate or not, this debate asks whether in the situation in which the patient has already decided that he wants to take his own life, would it be okay to assist.
This debate is about how much the will of the patient plays a part, in a and this is a question that we have already answered before.
So this is not about whether suicide is a good or a bad idea, and therefore this entire argument is just off clash.
So, because we saw that the will of the patient does play a vital role and must play a vital role, we are happy to oppose.