Our opponents in this debate aren't bothered by the fact that the government can lock you up for years just for using pot or that it wiretaps phones and emails.
What they deem as a quote gross overstep of government and call fascism or authoritarianism is that the government doesn't allow you to go a hundred and fifty miles per hour like a maniac on a highway.
This is a really strange nonsensical case.
Note that a lot of their harms that they complain about result from the speed limit not like being too restrictive if this is the case, by all means let's raise it a bit.
Their burden is to show us why we need to abolish it completely.
They try to tell you that the lifting of the speed limit will be hard politically, but if that is the situation, it means that most people are happy and satisfied with the speed limit in the status quo.
Therefore, it is not paternalism, and this contradicts their entire case.
Let's hear what sam has to say and answer it directly.
First, he says that speed limits are inefficient, first because I need to go slower and that's a waste of time for everyone, to which, again, we say simply lift the speed limit if if it seems too restrictive.
Secondly, because it forces everyone to drive close to one another and raises the probability of accidents.
So, here again, like raising the speed limit might solve the problem, but we would also note that even if it's true and even if it causes more accidents, which we are not certain about but even if, at least these are small accidents that happen at relatively controlled speeds, whereas if we lift completely the speed limit, maybe maybe car accidents will become rarer but they will also be much more deadly.
Lastly, on inefficiency, they tell us that this leads somehow to traffic jams.
Here I just didn't understand from sam's analysis what traffic jams have to do with the speed limit.
Traffic jams occur because there's some sort of bottleneck, a busy interchange, a long red light, a car accident that blocked the road.
Lifting the speed limit will not help avoid all of these so all of the harms that sam tries to derive from traffic jams, like pollutions and pollution and so on, are just simply not not relevant in this debate.
Then they talk about the right to transportation being absolute.
Why?
No idea.
Look, is this right for to transportation important?
Of course it is.
Can the government simply prevent people without any reason from using this right entirely and not let them move around?
Of course not.
But is it an absolute right, meaning that we cannot put any restrictions on it?
Of course it isn't, and we haven't even heard any justification to this.
This is just not a serious argument.
I'm going to give you one very simple reason to why, no matter what the height of the speed limit is, there must be one, and that reason is legal responsibility.
Let's say that I'm a very responsible driver and I always drive within the reasonable limits of what my car can withstand.
And let's say that my friend robert isn't as responsible as I am and he drives in a speed that is way too high for the conditions of the road or for the condition of his car, and he bumps into me.
The thing is robert didn't break any law if there are no speed limits.
So, who do I sue for the damages that were like that occurred to me and to my car?
Who's responsible, no one?
That's super problematic and for this reason alone, you should oppose the motion.