We should abolish the united nations security council veto power.
An international body that is trusted with promoting global peace and is unable to pass so much as a formal condemnation to a dictator slaughtering his own citizens with chemical weapons is nothing but a joke, a very costly and non-funny joke.
We suggest to turn the security council into a body that requires a majority vote, without veto power to any member, and we are willing to consider to even add to this like constant members of the security council, states that are a local power today, like germany and japan, you know, as constant members, as I said.
So, the first argument that I'd like to make is that the security council reflects a balance of powers that is no longer relevant.
So, the UN, in its current form, was established right after world war two, and its structure represents the power balance or the power structure of like the global sphere, of the winning states after that war.
This explains why, at least, the united states and russia and britain and france get to to enjoy a veto vote.
It's pretty obvious that germany and italy and japan, for instance, the losers of the war, were left out.
But if we look at the current balance of powers in the world, we we would see that germany is the leading country in the european union, japan is an economical force not to be reckoned with.
So, we say that this this old structure simply has nothing to do with the status quo as it is today in the world.
In addition, like what this does is it makes a lot of countries ridicule and discount the UN, and they do so in addition for like they say that the UN is nothing more than a political arm of the west, and particularly the united states.
And there's a lot of truth to this claim, because all it does is promote goals that the US is set to to achieve, and countries just don't take it seriously.
They don't take seriously resolutions that this body decides upon.
The second argument that I'd like to make is that the current structure just doesn't allow the UN to the UN to function.
So, another thing that makes countries not take seriously not take the UN seriously, and that's even worse than before than the point made before, is the fact that both the US and russia sit in the security council and get to enjoy a veto vote.
And because their agendas on anything pertaining to foreign policy is almost reverse on everything, there are almost no resolutions, at least none that matter, that this body actually agrees and enacts.
And again, an evidence to this would be that the UN is unable to take true measures against bashar al assad.
So, we believe that the alternative structure that was offered in the mechanism of this speech is the only way to make this body function and like in hope to redeem or restore the image of the UN, so that it can properly function in and promote world peace.
There might be problems to this new mechanism or to this new structure, but truly without it, there's just no point in keeping the the keeping the UN running.
Please propose.