Taxation is a necessary evil.
We have to tax our citizens to be able to provide essential services or public goods that the market cannot provides all by itself.
But beyond that, we believe that high taxation is just an inefficient economic tool and an unjust one.
Progressive taxation punishes the rich for succeeding in life and by doing so, it mainly harms the poor and therefore, we must oppose it.
When we talk about a flat tax rate, we mean a set percentage of your income and your expenditure that's being taxed.
So let's say that we set the income tax to be twenty percent.
This means that whoever makes a hundred dollars a month will pay twenty dollars in taxes, and whoever makes a thousand dollars a month will pay two hundred dollars in taxes, and the same goes for expenditure.
The more that some product that you consume is going to be more expensive, the higher your tax the tax that you pay are going to be.
So, the first argument deals with fairness.
Why do we believe that a flat tax rate is more fair than progressive taxation?
So, the basic argument that usually comes out of opposition in regards to fairness is usually that the more that you receive and the more that you enjoy the public goods that society has to offer, then it's it's more fair that you would have to pay more in return.
But we have a few problems with this.
One: this entire logic rests on the theory of social contract.
Now, we believe that this is just philosophical mumbo jumbo because no one has ever gave his actual consent to, you know, give up certain rights in order to gain other rights, and we say that without explicit consent, it's just unclear to us why any of this stands.
But two: even if this would have been the case, this assumes that my income testifies necessarily to how privileged I was, and that's just incorrect.
What if I grew up hard?
What if I had to build myself, with my own two hands, against all of the odds, and now I'm a successful businessman?
This means that I have received less and now I have to give back more.
How is this fair?
Three: we say that we mustn't forget that under a flat tax rate system, the rich still contribute far more.
The taxation on income is higher, their taxation on on expenditure is also higher because they buy more expensive products.
If they own a firm, then they have to also pay corporate tax.
All of this amounts to a much higher contribution by the well-off citizens, which is essentially what opposition wants.
Therefore, their burden in this debate is not to just explain why the rich should contribute more, but why all of this is still not enough and in addition to this, we also need to require that their contribution in percentile is going to be bigger.
We think that this is already a vengeful logic.
This is essentially deciding that we're setting out to punish whoever made it in life, and that is the opposite of fair.
Another problem that we have with progressive taxation that has to do with fairness stems from the complicated progressive system as opposed to the simplicity of the flat rate system.
The fact that a progressive system is so complicated, with all of the tax brackets and the different and complicated ways in which you calculate exactly how much needs to how much everyone needs to pay, this creates a situation in in which it is the richest citizens that are able to find all sorts of creative ways to avoid paying taxes because they can afford, you know, to hire professional advisers that specialize in all these types of tricks.
All you have to do to find a a relevant example is to look at the current president of the united states.
So, we say that this provides a huge advantage to the richest citizens, and we think that that's another realistic problem that opposition have in this debate and that would it would be quite hard for them to justify under their principles.
But lastly, let's talk about really quickly about efficiency.
And this argument is really quite simple and it says the following.
We say that taxation always operates as an inhibitor on expanding the economic activity.
People react rationally to incentives, especially the rich, which are the ones that are directly affected by progressive taxation.
Now if they know that a big chunk of the revenues that they generate is going to be taken away from them, they are going to minimize the the economic activity up until the point in which it would be optimal.
This means that the higher the tax is going to be, I will hire less employees.
This means that whoever that the people that really get hurt from this, by the end of the day, are the weakest people that need those jobs, and they are the ones that suffer the most.
So for all of these reasons, please propose.