Shimon's speech is very confusing because he starts with talking about the importance of separations of power to the democratic process and then ends with talking about how everything is way more efficient when all of the power is concentrating in the hands of one body, namely the presidency.
So, which one is it?
You can't have it both ways.
Look, when the founding fathers of the united states have worked on building the institutions of the country, it was pretty obvious that parliament was the one authority that they saw as the strongest and that and as the one that we must defend the citizens from most.
That is why the first clause in the american constitution deals with definitions of what parliament can and cannot do and only the second clause is dedicated to the executives.
But along the years, the power of the executive branch in the united states has grown until it spun completely out of control.
So, if side government wants to talk about problems of separation of powers or checks and balances, then they are defending the wrong side here.
They're trying to remove an important check from the strongest branch of government and skew the balance even more in its favor.
Specifically, we say, in federations like the united states which is basically just a huge union of many different countries with different perceptions and different needs that are formed by one big federal government, there is a huge importance to to maintain a form of government that allows this plurality to take place, that isn't concentrating too much power in the hands of the executive that could simply decide like, according to their own will how to divide this the different services between the different states and different areas.
And the one and only authority that is built in a way that is inherently meant to represent the balance of powers in the society is the legislative authority legislative branch, and more specifically, the house of representatives.
So, it would only make sense to allow the house of representatives to determine the way and the manner in which the services that the country supplies are being divided.
Shimon talks about two different levels of decision making: a, how much money is going to be allocated to each subject and b, how are we going to use that money.
The first belongs to congress, the second to the government.
We say that's a very crude division that mischaracterizes the topic over which we are debating here.
Earmarks don't don't define for the government exactly how to use the money in the sense of which contractor it should hire, what is the deadline that should be given to any project, who supervises it, and so on and so forth.
So, the practical execution here is completely like, left for the hands of the executive branch.
And yes, that is what it is meant for, however, what marks do do is that they simply we can see them as another layer of the first level shimon talks about, which he is willing to admit should be left by the hands of congress and that is how much money is being allocated to each subject.
Just instead of it being the most generic, most vague like, division that one can possibly imagine, it also comes with clear definitions of the specific areas that we should prioritize.
His example of whether we should build, like, a train or roads actually helps in is is helpful in figuring out exactly what the source of the problem is.
Because let's say that a true authentic demand comes from the citizens of missouri to build a train, but the citizens of illinois would rather see new roads being built.
So, the representatives of each state operate in order to promote the will of their constituency.
That is their job, right?
The problem is that neither one of these states has a representative that is seated in the white house.
They are only represented by their senators and congressmen that sit in the capital.
So, in a world where these representatives don't have the ability to set earmarks that define for the government that the money for public transportation in their home state should be used in order to build a train or new roads and all they could do is simply pass a a budget that says, like, twenty billion dollars on the federal level should be given to transportation, then they basically have no ability to operate in order to fulfill the will of their citizens.
It is all left into the hands and into the arbitrary will of government that is not going to be able, nor willing, to distinguish between the needs of different states.
That's where democracy is harmed.
Please oppose.