We should ban anonymous posts.
What we mean by that is forcing whoever intends to comment on some online platform to identify with his name and authenticate it like through an authenticated user, via facebook or email or something of the sort.
The main reason that we want to do this is that posts on the internet have become an extreme, chaotic no man's land, sort of a race to the bottom of the darkest, most bigoted bigoted and sexist opinions.
And so, the internet has become from a place that could theoretically be used as an open stage for a fertile discussion, a marketplace for ideas and all of these nice words, to a place that makes people much more extreme than they had been when they entered, a lot less patient to other opinions.
And we think that this is a very bad thing for society.
We believe that the anonymity that is available for people online is what causes this and that the lack of which will be will use an as an inhibitor, as a check on the impulses of people to behave loathsomely.
We think that, you know, the argument that has to do with why this will work is fairly simple and straightforward.
People have a reputation to maintain, and they care about what other people think about them, so they will think twice about what they are saying and how extreme they sound if they knew that they could be identified.
We say that if a man walks in the street with like wearing a mask, then he will definitely allow himself to do things and say things that he wouldn't have allowed himself to do otherwise, if we would have removed the mask.
So we think that like most of the other side opposition is probably not going to be focused here but on the question of whether it is right to take away people's anonymity.
They will wish to focus this discussion on the groups of people that need anonymity, you know, religious children in the closet and so on.
So we agree that these people might need some anonymity, but we think that it is possible to find a solution to their specific problem without allowing for all of the harms that come from allowing everybody anonymity.
For instance, we could create closed-group forums in which, you know, people do identify in their names and support one another, but they're not available for the entire public, like some sort of a an online AA meeting.
So, and in fact, we have to say that we think that the situation will be much better, especially for minority groups like closeted gay people and so on, and that is because a lot of the nasty xenophobic voices that are exactly what makes their lives so much harder in the status quo will vanish or will dwindle down as a result of the lack of anonymity, as we explained earlier.
So, if we allow for a closed group in which these people can express themselves and ask questions and be themselves and and find others to support them, without being exposed to the public, then we have managed to solve their specific problems, and we also we're able to avoid or to prevent a lot of the racist or xenophobic or homophobic comments that are making their lives so much harder.
So for all of these reasons, please propose.