Multiculturalism brings more good than harm.
The question of whether it's better to fully assimilate, or be distinguished from the majority population, is very subjective and personal.
For some individuals integration works better, and for others remaining distinct, and there's nothing wrong with that.
What is wrong is not allowing a choice, and trying to impose integration.
We will therefore argue why it's necessary to support minority communities efforts, to to maintain a unique culture.
We can do this by funding schools, and cultural projects, as mentioned in.
Two arguments in this speech: one, imposing integration is an assault on people's identity, and two, imposing integration creates a fruitful background for radicalization.
First argument: culture is a form of expression.
Culture shapes people's thinking, for many people, the language that they speak, the clothes they wear, the religious customs, all these are a major part of their self determination and identity.
This is especially true for immigrant families, for them these symbols are the only relics left of their childhood.
The ability to pass all of this onto their children means a great deal for them.
By trying to push towards integration, these people feel that the state is trying to erase their legacy.
Opposition might say: listen, it's legitimate for the states to want to create a one shared narrative, one culture that unifies everyone.
We think this is not something that that can be imposed in force.
Obviously, there is always a dominant majority culture, it's not really threatened by multiculturalism.
The fact that there are arabic speaking neighborhoods in england doesn't really threaten the status of the english language, so there's not a lot to worry about.
Most certainly, it doesn't justify imposing a culture on someone that isn't interested in it.
As we said, culture is thought, culture is expression, and just like we can't force everyone to think, or express themselves, in the same way, we can't force everyone to adopt the same culture.
As long as I haven't sinned, or haven't harmed anyone, than the state has no rights to tell me that my lifestyle is wrong or less worthy in any way.
But what are the practical effects of forcing integration?
Second argument: opposition will probably talk about how multiculturalism leads to seclusion, that leads to poverty, that leads to extremist ideas, etcetera.
What we say is this: first of all, we don't we don't agree that that's the case.
We think that, there are many examples that show it's totally possible to maintain a peaceful lifestyle, within a multicultural area.
Jewish communities and muslim communities, both in europe and the US, have been coexisting alongside the majority population for centuries, and this works fine.
But secondly and more importantly, we agree with that position that long term seclusion can be a problem, but we think that this isn't long term, but rather a temporary state.
It usually takes one to two generations that are like transition generations, but the children, that are born in the new country, already have a very strong incentive to assimilate naturally, but they need to feel that they chose it.
People want to assimilate, when they see that the society is kind and tolerant towards them.
But when people feel they're being forced to assimilate by society, they tend not to want it as much.
They feel angry, and this anger is what makes it easy for radicals to enter and incite, and turn that anger into hate.
The best example is perhaps france.
France is a very intolerant country, that tries to force assimilation, and we see that it suffers severely, by the hands of radicals, that were able to persuade people that the state is attacking their identity.
The claim that, we owe it to the children to save them from a life of social seclusion, is also wrong.
We say that what we owe them is a choice.
We are proud to propose.