If you're not a socialist before you're twenty five, then you have no heart.
But if you're still a socialist after twenty five, then you have no brain.
Socialism is the textbook example of how the road to hell can be paved with good intentions.
Pursuing equality is an admirable cause, but the inherent problems with actually achieving it, without dealing a deadly blow to the economic prosperity of the people or to their freedoms, leads us to, with a heavy heart, abandon socialism.
We understand socialism in this debate as an economic model that heavily leans on taxpayer funds for redistribution of wealth, and has a big strong public sector.
Of course that by abandoning socialism, we don't mean to cancel overnight all of the public services like healthcare or social security, but that we ought to aspire to have a small public sector that deals only with places where the market is truly incapable of working properly.
Two arguments today.
Firstly, about the free rider problem and economic prosperity, and secondly, about the grave dangers of the central planner system.
First argument.
When the government is using a large chunk of its taxpayers money in order to provide many services and offer help to the needy, it creates a problematic incentive system.
On one hand, the incentive of weak people to go out and find jobs where they'll be forced to work harder to earn their bread is being lowered when they're being promised a monthly allowance.
Dozens of researchers have proven a significant positive link between unemployment benefits and unemployment rates.
On the other hand, the incentive for strong people to work hard and earn a nice living for themselves is also lowered, because they know the state is going to bite off a significant part of their profit.
So, the market is being harmed twice here.
However, when every person gets to enjoy most of the money he has earned, then everyone has an incentive to do the best that they can that they can to benefit society, so they could benefit themselves.
This is the reason that socialist economies tend to stagnate many times, while capitalist models usually lead to prosperity and wealth.
It's true that the latter situation necessarily results in lower levels of equality, but the situation is still better off for everyone in absolute terms.
Second argument.
Socialism is a method which inherently means that like a very few decision makers are granted huge power to shape and design the entire economy according to their own private point of view, what they consider to be necessary and good.
There are a few problems with that.
A, the market is a huge system of interactions with endless information.
No matter how smart these central planners are, there's no way they're able to properly understand, anticipate and plan what are going to be the outcomes of every small interference that they create in the markets.
Not to mention like large scale reforms that socialism tends to favor.
There's a billion examples of how socialist laws that were meant to do one thing end up causing the exact opposite.
For example, raising the minimum wage tends to lead to firings and to more unemployment, and there are countless other examples.
It's much better to allow the market to lead us to like a spontaneous order and equilibrium that is a result of countless small interactions between actors.
B.
Different people have different views to what is considered good.
When a handful of people get to shape a policy that can be forced on everyone, they literally force their own agenda on countless people that aren't necessarily interested in it.
If, for example, the ministry of treasury decides tomorrow that musical education is one of the most important like like is of the utmost importance, and we have to start funding violin lessons for every child, then this policy can be forced upon everyone and everybody will have to also pay for it.
This is a severe toll on individual freedom.
And c and most importantly, note that so far we only listed the best case scenarios in which this this central planner has pure intentions at heart.
What happens when that's no longer the case, when someone gets power drunk and decides to use his power to oppress and abuse others, what happens then?
This is a constant threat that is inherent to every system of a central planner and we have to be very careful of it.
For all of these reasons, please propose.