Right from the start, I'd like to say that the previous speaker has left many crucial details out of his definition or his mechanism to this debate.
First, it's unclear whether the intention is to recall a president or a member of congress, maybe like both, we think that these are pretty important details.
Next, it's unclear if like the the moment that a certain candidate is being recalled, does this mean that now his seat is open to members of both parties, or does that mean that we can only choose a replacement of the same party?
Again, these are pretty important details.
But perhaps most importantly, it's unclear from the mechanism when exactly, I mean what are the required necessary conditions that that need to be met for there to be a recall vote?
And I'm not just insisting on technical things, this is really important.
The only thing that we've heard from side government is that this happens when the public is not satisfied from the elected candidate or when campaign promises aren't being fulfilled.
Well, newsflash: basically, at any given moment, there are huge, huge chunks of the public that aren't going to be satisfied, and most campaign promises usually don't get fulfilled, because that's what campaign promises are like.
They're not really meant to actually happen, they're meant to get you the most votes.
So what we say is, basically, that from what side government did say, this sounds as if like any day or two, there could be a recall vote.
Add to this the fact that now all of the actions of the losing side, the the party that lost the elections, are going to be aimed at like acquiring impeachment through a recall election.
And this means that the election season is just never over, and this has devastating effects on the country.
So we're being told that direct democracy is a good thing, because elections are the most direct way of for the citizen to influence the policies and the more the merrier, right?
So, we say that there's a reason that we have a method of a representative democracy and not a direct model, and this reason is that otherwise, it would just be impossible to get anything done.
True, this means less direct influence, but seriously arguing that we ought have a direct democracy today with hundreds of millions of citizens is just silly.
We really don't understand this argument.
Then we're being told that that if campaign promises have not been fulfilled, then there's a principle justification for the citizen to change his mind, and we think that this could have been a valid point were it not so naive.
I mean, obviously, campaign promises are being broken all the time.
This almost doesn't matter who wins the elections because during the campaign, the candidate is mainly busy with trying to win over votes.
Therefore, he must exaggerate his opinions and make promises as if there is no tomorrow.
But as soon as you're in office, you realize that things aren't so easy, point being this principle point of side government sounds good on paper but in reality, if we would like to say that every politician that has broke that that broke his campaign promises needs to be replaced, we would have been left without politics at all.
And finally, we hear a point on how politicians are corrupt and they don't have the people's interests at heart and so on, and we say that that's probably true.
There are inherent problems in democracy but at the very least, we have an opportunity to change our our like our elected officials once every four years.
So, and like, if it's if a certain politician has been exposed to doing something really, really corrupt, like during these four years, then in the middle of his term, then usually he will be impeached anyway or he'll resign on his own, case in point: nixon, after the watergate scandal.
So, eventually we say that the potential damage is is somewhat limited, but if no politician can feel safe enough to to plan ahead for more than a week ahead, because whoever knows if he won't get recalled by then, this is much worse for everybody.
Please oppose.