Patriotism does more harm than good.
People are real.
Countries are imaginary.
Once people become more loyal to some fiction than to actually people then we have a problem.
There is no logical reason for a cattle owner from texas and a stockbroker from new york that don't share any ideology and that whose lifestyles are completely opposite to one another to feel bound by ties of companionship only because randomly they were born at two completely different parts of the same country.
Whereas someone that lives only miles away from my house but and shares the same weather, same language, and the same customs but whose home happens to fall at the other side of the border will seem as different and sometimes even as the enemy.
Two points in in our speech today: first, patriotism easily leads to nationalism and second, patriotism tends to be mutually exclusive to criticism.
First argument: people have an innate need to form some kind of collective identity and to feel that they belong to a certain group.
The easiest and most common way for people to assert that identity is through the negative.
By opposing whoever is not like me then I better understand who I am and who other is like me.
We can call that the us and them approach.
There is that's just something natural that everyone does.
So them the interesting question is what element gets the front stage in this identity?
What is going to dictate the foundation to this sense of I identification that I have with the group?
Patriotism puts the nationality elements in the center.
What's wrong with that?
A, that nationality is a random element to which people are born and didn't choose it by no means.
B, it is a binary criteria and you cannot ever move or change this.
You are either american or you're not.
Combining these two things together makes the distance, or the alienation between different reference groups, much harder to compensate.
This quickly escalates to resentment and even to hate for everyone that's different.
That's what we call nationalism.
People like to feel that their camp that the camp that they are a part of is the right camp.
The just camp.
This means that the other camp is wrong and unjust.
When people prioritize elements that are not coming from birth, but rather from choice, that or not binary but rather on a scale and change is possible, like, values or ideology for instance, then it's not that these problems disappear entirely but they will be far less severe because it allows people to show much more patience and understanding to whoever is on a different group.
This becomes super important when we are dealing with issues of, like, foreign aid, refugees, the way in which we should engage in wars.
We say that many atrocities can happen where national sentiment in a society is causing people to be blind to the suffering of whoever whoever is not in their group.
Second argument, a patriotic society is a society that endorses complete support for the actions and deeds of the country and of the government.
Opinions that criticized the state are being accepted with anger and with impatience because they attack the very foundation of people's identity and that is the belief that their camp is the right camp, the just camp.
So people very quickly are being branded as traitors and being outcast from discourse this creates a very strong negative incentive for against expressing such opinions.
Not only are people afraid to express these opinions, but without them in the public discourse this creates a conform society in which critical opinions are not being formed to begin with.
And this is obviously bad because it allows government to enact controversial policies without any effort.
This is how you reach discrimination at at the best case scenarios and atrocities in the worst case scenarios.
Please propose.