Affirmative action is a huge subject, a huge topic, and there's plenty of different models to talk about.
Since we only have four minutes, I'm going to focus my opposition to specifically the field of affirmative action in institutions of higher education.
Let's engage with the material that we get from the previous speaker.
So the first point they make is that is about how less qualified people end up in like taking part in the institions, in this case higher education, and we simply don't accept that this is necessarily the case.
We think, and and our opponents will obviously agree, that many times it is the fact that you belong to some disenfranchised group that makes you underperform relatively to other groups and not because you are less gifted or that your potential is lower.
So let's say let's let's just picture two applicants trying to get accepted to a prestigious university: the one got to attend a like top-notch elementary and high schools and had private tutors to assist in any class that he had difficulties with, and parents that always encouraged and pushed him for academic excellency, while the other went to a low-budget school and his parents needed him to stay at home and help with his younger brothers and sisters while they are at work, so they never were able to get to any parents meeting or anything.
So it seems pretty obvious that the gaps in the grades that these two two kids will be able to present to the, you know, committee of the the university don't actually testify to their skills.
So there's an inherent problem of a of like a systematical discrimination in in the system of just relying purely on grades and on hard data.
And this is a problem that affirmative action helps to at the very at the very least, like mitigate and reduce.
The second thing that they say in this regard is that the people that have received affirmative action suffer from stigma because other people will think that they didn't achieve this on their own.
The first answer to this is that such stigmas tend to disappear once you see that that they do succeed and that much and like you start matching their achievements to yours in class and so on.
And the second answer is that even if it is true that there's always a somewhat of a stigma, this is still preferable to a situation where they wouldn't have even received this opportunity to begin with, because then you suffer both the stigma from others looking down at you and so on and that lack of opportunities and tools to actually improve your own future.
And eventually they they tell us, in this point, that the people that have received affirmative action are more likely to drop out.
Again, we do not think that this is necessarily true but even if it is true, at the very least, they have been granted an opportunity, which is already much more than they get in the status quo.
The next point that they talk about is that due to the gaps in education, like because gaps in education is a is a problem that starts at a at an earlier age, we need to fix that, and affirmative action is somehow mutually exclusive with a real solution.
Why?
Because it satiates liberals.
Well, we fail to understand how this is truly mutually exclusive.
It's hard for us to believe that to believe that liberals or anybody else will just say: no, no, because we already give a tiny percent of these people affirmative action at a later age, we shouldn't aspire for equality in education from a younger age.
This seems unlikely.
But even if but like and even like regardless, if an even if a reform does take place in education, what sadly doesn't look like really is something that's going to happen in the in the next coming years, we say that this will still be too late for the generations of children that has have just missed this reform.
So, they definitely deserve this affirmative action as a corrective justice for the harm that they have suffered.
Lastly, they talk about the backlash from extreme right groups but this is, of course, a very weak point because according to this logic then, we mustn't ever implement any type of policy that is going to like that's going to make extreme racists angry.
This basically means that every policy that that like the better a policy is and the more just it is, the more we're going to have to avoid it.
This is absurd.
There are always radical extremists that like to make noise.
We can't let them set the tone.
Affirmative action is an unfair measure that helps to correct a bigger unfairness or a bigger injustice, and we ought support it.