Airport racial profiling in the US is justified.
There's no doubt that racial profiling isn't fair, but some things are more important than being fair.
As long as this system helps prevent disasters, we're fine with sacrificing an ounce of fairness.
Three arguments in the speech: one, why does it work?
Two, fairness versus security, and three, the broader consequences for the population being profiled.
First argument: effectiveness of racial profiling.
So, of course, it's not a hundred percent effective and won't prevent all terror attacks.
But assuming that we can agree that some form of thorough security checks in airports are required, and assuming that we can agree that it's not possible to really stop every passenger for a more thorough search, then the only alternative to racial profiling are random checks.
And if opposition think that random checks have higher success rates in spotting terrorists and preventing terror than racial profiling does, they are clearly wrong and go out against the entire theory of statistics and probability.
If that is a burden they wish to take, be my guest.
Moreover, they will have to answer whether they support profiling as a result of behavioral triggers, like stalling people that show signs of unrest or that seem nervous.
If they do, we would ask why, because this is eventually the same form of statistic induction.
It's the same reasoning.
Furthermore, not only is it easier to find terrorists using racial profiling, we say that there's also the deterrence element.
Once terrorists that belong to a certain group that's being profiled know that it's not just random checks and there's a high chance that they'll be examined, like this will discourage them from even trying to begin with.
Second argument: fairness versus security.
So, the strongest argument against racial profiling points to the fact that this is a degrading form of discrimination, and there's not really a way around that.
It's true.
Our heart goes out to the innocent people that have to pay the price of belonging to a group that's considered of a high risk but eventually, the level of intrusion here isn't unreasonably high.
We're not penetrating anybody's home, we're simply asking them some more questions or to open their bags for a couple of minutes.
The real price these people have to pay boils down to a degrading treatment and a very unpleasant feeling.
We think that once this is a common practice and these people are expecting these checks, and aren't surprised by it, then some of this awkwardness fades.
But again, without underestimating how bad this makes people feel, we simply argue that be benefit in raising our chances to successfully target terrorists and save innocent lives are worth this harm.
Third argument: the broader effects on the population.
So, opposition might also claim that this method creates harm that goes beyond the specific humiliation in airports, because this validates and promotes irrational fear and suspicion toward certain minority groups.
We argue that even if that is true, obviously every terror event that we were unable to prevent and was performed by a representative of this community that's being profiled, if a muslim terrorist, for instance, brings down a plane, then this single event causes way bigger public image problems and a way bigger harm for the entire muslim community than racial profiling does, because this will reach the front page and will provide a lot more people with a much bigger reason to be scared of muslims tomorrow.
So eventually we say that, if anything, as long as we think that this is an effective method in preventing at least some of the terrorist terror events like the potential terror events, then this actually helps out this community's public image.
So for all of these reasons, we are proud to propose.