It seems that the government and us share the same end goal, and that is to maximize the liberties of people in the in the public sphere, only it seems that they have never heard of the term " compromise ".
The case that was brought up by government side eventually boils down to saying that seeing as the concept of decency or indecency is random and subjective and changes from one group to another, then there is no room to consider this value whatsoever and therefore, we should allow public nudity in order to maximize the freedom of expression.
Now we're not going to start arguing on whether there is such a thing as an objective like indecency because honestly, we don't really need to.
We think that the very fact that nudity subjectively bothers large groups of people to the extent that it precludes them from accessing the public sphere is enough for us to win this debate on the metric of maximizing freedoms that the government itself has set.
First point: what is the harm in public nudity?
So, side government comes with the odd proclamation that there is nothing wrong with nudity, there's no harm.
And that is because they, for some reason, choose to narrow down the definition of what is harmed only to what is objective and empirically evident, but that is hardly ever the way in which we understand harm.
For instance, if I threaten somebody, then no physical objective harm has took place, but this is still considered enough of a harm in order to outlaw this behavior, even if I never had an intent to to actually like actualize this threat.
Why?
Because an emotional harm has occurred.
This person that I've threatened felt inconvenient, and maybe he even had to like like distance himself from from me or from the area of the neighborhood in which I reside.
Now note that to some people, the case of public nudity is identical.
If I'm a person of faith and I was brought up believing that I have to avoid, as much as possible, all sorts of earthly thoughts about sexuality, otherwise I am I am a sinner to my god, I'm a disgrace to my family, so the very possibility that I would have to encounter the direct and full frontal nudity of the other sex is a threat to me.
This threat most likely will lead me and many others like me to be pushed outside of the public sphere, a sphere that is that belongs to me just like it belongs to everybody else.
Now this can make my my life very difficult, and that is what I call a major harm.
Note, also, that a threat might also be random, because one what one person perceives as as a threat doesn't necessarily apply to another person that might see it as a joke.
That is also subjective, but the law still has to set a clear bar and once I cross that bar, then I am no longer entitled to the protection of freedom of speech.
Second point: what is the right balance here?
Because obviously, in denying public nudity, we take away a certain freedom from the citizens that might wish to express themselves in these in this specific matter.
So there's a clash between different interests here, and the question we have to ask ourselves is: what is the scenario in which we are successful in bringing about the optimal equilibrium that balances out these conflicting interests?
And the best way to think about this would be to ask who has reasonable alternatives to supplement for the harm that that is being created to him?
So in a situation where we allow public nudity, it's hard to think of a better alternative that will allow religious people to just pass by nude people.
They would have to shut down in their own communities even further and by doing that, reversing a long process of opening up to change.
We say that in a situation where we, like in like the status quo, ban public nudity, we maybe have taken away one specific option of expression, but we have left a like infinite variety of other ways to express ideas through like what you wear and how you look and what you talk about, etcetera.
So this seems like a more worthy balance.
Note that the same logic couldn't have led us to say, for instance, that just because devout muslims are bothered by seeing women's faces, then all women should have walked around with burqas because here, the price or the freedom that's going to be lost on the other side is a lot bigger.
So this wouldn't have led us to an equilibrium.
For all of these reasons, please oppose.