We think that there is value in what we shall name an innocent childhood without sexual awareness.
We do not think that side government is going to disagree with us so we're not gonna bother to much in explaining why.
They would simply say that that it is the limit of that time period which is in question.
What we're going to do is explain why if we follow government's logic and start lowering the age of consent, we're going to find ourselves in a very dangerous process where there is no clear boundary and that slowly but surely erases the ability of our children to grow in an innocent environment completely.
Before we start, some relevant information.
Because eitan says that he wants to lower this age from eighteen to somewhere between fourteen and sixteen.
Well, to the best of our knowledge in most places around the world, including in the united states, the legal age of consent moves between seventeen to sixteen to even fifteen in certain states, so obviously we think it would be a little bit ridiculous to just argue, like, to change it and to lower it for one year, so we think this debate intends for there to be a significant lowering of the age of consent, which already sets the bar somewhere between twelve to fourteen, just to set the record straight.
Now, obviously no matter where we set this bar it's going to be somewhat random in the sense that in certain cases this bar is going to be too low and in other particular cases it's going to be too high, but side government also understands that we have to set the bar somewhere and the thing is that no matter where we set it we have to take into account that there are, there's like always a certain erosion in the way that people actually follow these laws.
This is a law that is by nature not allowing the state or the police to enforce it strictly.
At best we only find out about like five to ten percent of the cases where people break this law.
This is much like speed signs where it is clear to us that people are always going to be driving like ten to fifteen percent faster than what is legally allowed.
So the number that appears in these laws is some sort of anchor that dictates the general area of ages in which people are going to, like, in which children are going to have sex with adults.
And we have to be conscious of the fact that if we are going to lower this anchor to, say fourteen, this means that we have to be willing to accept that in many cases this means this applies de facto for children in the age of twelve or thirteen.
Now why is that so bad?
So we hear from eitan about the physiological changes and the changes in social norms that have brought our children to be better equipped and more ready to have sex in younger ages.
We have two things to say about that: first thing, like, both these things don't necessarily mean a better cognitive or mental adaptation that is required to to be truly ready to have sexual intercourse.
So even if our children are expressing sexual behavior or become more curious and exposed to sexuality, this does not mean that they have developed the mental maturity that will allow them to safely engage in actual sexual acts.
Second thing to say here is that we think that the changes in social norms just continue on happening in a pattern of, like, an ongoing race to younger and younger ages.
This happens, among other things, because sex sells and because there are financial interests at play.
And they are happening way faster than the physical adaptations that are required to, like, that's that require an actual evolutionary like biological process.
This takes time.
This means that as our children are not really physically ready to have sex, the social norm is increasingly becoming more and more open to the to the idea that they are, with every passing generation and this means that we're going to have to continue on lowering the age of consent more and more and as a result children are going to be taken advantage of.
Even if without any like malicious intent and they will have to be forced to live with the damages of having sex before they are mentally prepared.
So please oppose.