We should ban violent video games.
When a ten year old child plays without any supervision in a game where he needs to run down old people and beat women up in order to score points, there's something seriously wrong and even dangerous about this.
I'll have two points.
The first, what things are we allowed to ban in general, and secondly, on the dangerous effects of violent video games specifically.
First point: so allegedly we're talking about a private product that doesn't directly harm anyone.
Why are we justified in banning it?
Well the thing is that as soon as we have a certain reason to believe that a certain product holds a dangerous effect for society, we are very much legitimate in either limiting it as we do with alcohol, where we don't allow to sell it to a certain age group or in certain places or at certain hours, or even banning it altogether like we do with drugs.
It's not only our responsibility as a governments to retroactively punish someone after doing something wrong, it is also our responsibility to protect our society and try and do our best to prevent bad things from happening to begin with.
Therefore, we have responsibility to ban everything that we think might have a detrimental effect on society.
We do this all the time.
There's nothing new about this.
Moving on to the second point, about the dangers of violent video games.
Let's start with analyzing the target audience these games are aimed at.
Obviously we're talking about young children.
Moreover, the average age of kids playing these games keep getting lower and lower.
Because when a five year old watches his ten year old brother playing this game, he would also want to play.
We need to understand that everyone have violent impulses or urges.
All of us do.
This is the reason violent video games thrill us so much and are so successful.
Society teaches us as we grow up to suppress these urges by giving sanctions on violent behavior and rewards for kind behavior.
But in these games the incentives are completely reverse.
You're rewarded for violent behavior and sanctioned for kind behavior.
As I said in the beginning, children play these games unsupervised.
And it's because their parents are buying these games as some sort of substitute for a baby sitter.
While the kids are playing, the parents can go and do whatever it is they need to do thinking that their children are perfectly safe.
But in the meanwhile their children are learning about the world in the exact opposite way to what we're trying to teach them.
Combine this with the fact that children often sit and play for hours upon hours, and with the fact that video games are becoming more and more advanced in terms of graphics to the point that you actually almost feel that it's real and you are in the game yourself, and lastly with how the level of violence is constantly on the rise because the games need to continue selling and the companies that make these games have to make them more and more thrilling, but the threshold for what's considered thrilling keeps getting higher and higher, and so we have a race to the bottom of more and more violence.
Combined all of these things that we've just analyzed, and what you get is, in the worst case scenario, people that may actually become violent.
You know young children expressing violent behavior that they learned in these games in the school yard.
And it's going to be increasingly harder to teach them to change their ways.
And that's already enough of a reason to ban these games.
But even if we not just look at the worst case scenario, but at the more likely scenario, we're getting children with a bad temper that will resort to anger to resolve their problems.
These video games have a counter influence on the education that the parents or society aim to provide for the for the children.
So since we are perfectly within our rights to ban something if we think that it's badly influencing our society, and because we have plenty of reasons to believe that these video games indeed pose a dangerous threat, we beg to propose.