Government is trying to convince us that ADHD is an ailment just like the flu, and that it needs to be taken care of by using a medicine, and that ritalin and adderall is the equivalent of aspirin or antibiotics, or even a cast that you put on a broken arm.
We totally disagree with that diagnosis.
We believe that there are several key differences.
A, it is not so much a passing temporary ailment, but rather a condition that is permanent.
B, ritalin and adderall has have been proven to be physically psychoactive.
People without ADHD use them as well as a form of recreational drugs because they provide a feeling of euphoria.
This leads me to c, unlike aspirin or antibiotics or, you know, casts, ritalin and adderall are highly addictive and with a huge potential to make abusers out of users.
Children that start that start out by taking, like, just a pill in order to remain focused in class, many times end up completely dependent on it to do even the most simplest of tasks that they shouldn't have any problem doing, and that they could have done without using ritalin or adderall prior to their like before they started taking it.
Lastly and most crucially, we do not believe that ADHD is necessarily something that we need to look at as some sort of a setback, but rather a different form of thinking.
We think that while it is like it is true that it makes certain tasks more difficult, certain tasks that require like long term concentration, there are also a lot of advantages and pluses that come with ADHD, like a tendency to think creatively outside the box, for instance.
In this sense it is not unlike people with asperger syndrome.
In this generation in which it is becoming less and less abnormal and more and more children are being diagnosed with this condition, it is time that we stop seeing this as an ailment, and that that we need to ask how to how we cope with it, and start asking ourselves how do we make our schools and our education system and our society as a whole more accessible and more relevant to those people.
Perhaps we need to rethink the old models of, like, long frontal lectures and standardized testings.
Note how this clashes directly with all of the analysis of side government on how ADHD doesn't allow children to succeed in their education, and I think that basically all of their harms that they point to derives from.
Specifically they mention the feeling of depression that's, like, results from the fact that these children experience like experience a lack of success, and how they feel that they're not as smart or not as good as other children.
We agree that this thing is crucial in terms of making the lives of people that, like, with ADHD better and and allowing them to contribute back to society more in the future, but we don't think that the problem can be really solved by ritalin.
We think that even in the best case scenario for side government, if if ritalin truly helped a child sit through the test and get a good grade, he still he still feels that something is wrong with him so that he requires some sort of, like, extra medicine.
He's still not like the other kids that don't need no assistance, he is still insecure and afraid to go out to the world and compete for his place against people that he perceives to have a competitive advantage on him.
The only way to solve this is through an institutional change in the way that we rate children today in schools, meaning based on their ability to sit quietly for several hours.
As long as we continue on providing these temporary solutions, like ritalin or adderall, that provide a quick temporary fix, we will continue to get children with this inferiority complex that find it difficult to fit in in society, and all of the harms that james does such a beautiful work in explaining what they are.
So, please oppose.