We recognize that to many people their jobs and work is a fundamental part of their lives which shapes in large part a man's identity.
That is exactly why the manner in which a person retires is of huge importance.
We are here to tell you that having a mandatory age of retirement allows people to retire with dignity.
Opposition might come and speak about the humiliation of forcing a man to quit due to his age and about how much of a discrimination it is.
Well we agree.
And that is exactly what we think it's critical to have a mandatory retirement age.
Having a set age where both the worker and the employer know that this employee is going to retire allows for a certain framework that everyone can set their mind to.
Let's think of the moment where the employer understands that it will be more profitable for him to replace the seasoned employee with a new one.
The question of when this moment occurs is obviously like varies from person to person, but in today's world where computers and technology have conquered much of the of the work and job market and made it very difficult for older generations we say that this age usually happens before the age of retirement and that it's not likely to change in the upcoming generations.
So if the employer already knows that this employee only has two or three years left and then he's going to retire anyways it's more likely that they will that they would rather allow him to reach that retirement age whether like, be it out of respect for the employee or because of considerations of of like, cost benefits because even the the small amount of money that they could save us from replacing that employee aren't worth the bad reputation of a boss that throws his employee to the streets two years before retirement age, and the effect that it's going to have on the rest of the of this guy's employees and on their motivation.
But in the absence of such a set age what's likely to happen is that employers will take care of replacing that employee as soon as he starts becoming a liability.
As long as retirement is being forced upon you because of a law then it's not that much of a humiliation because it is like you could always say that well it's a random law that is supposed to only catch the average of people so it doesn't mean anything and it doesn't say anything to me personally into my personal abilities.
But as soon as the retirement is being forced on you because you were fired then you have no other way of explain it explaining this to yourself other then that you are no longer valuable and that's where the humiliation and the feeling of, like, lack of self of self worth kicks in.
So pay attention that even in in the best case that opposition might talk to you about if there was no mandatory retirement age people might have a few more years if they are people that that like really age marvelously so they could could keep their job their jobs for a few extra years.
But eventually they will reach the age where they are being replaced with someone younger that's just how the world works.
So opposition in its best case can only postpone the situation a few years but not avoid it.
So in order to prevent many people from reaching a situation where where they will have to face losing their jobs in an unexpected manner with old age and all the psychological difficulties that come with it we are proud to propose.