We should ban herbal medicine.
If there's one thing that we should really not take lightly, it's medicine, where even a small error can quite literally be the difference between life and death.
Especially since there is so much that we don't know yet when it comes to the human body and how to best treat it, we should be extra cautious and use all of the carefully constructed scientific methods and tools to test every little bit of new progress made so that we can make sure horrible and lethal mistakes are prevented, and maximum lives are saved.
Herbal medicine that is not carefully and scientifically tested almost consistently leads to bad results.
It can happen due to the use of some unknown substance that turns out to be toxic or that causes unforeseen allergic reactions.
It can happen because some substances interact badly with other drugs or medicines the patient is taking, or it can happen simply because they're ineffective, but come at the expense of other modern treatments that could have potentially helped more.
And sure, sometimes they can also help.
Miracles do happen, we're willing to acknowledge this.
However, on balance, the chances of herbal medicine impacting a patient for the worse are far greater than the chances of a miracle happening to that patient.
Moreover, we believe that the majority of such so-called miracles happen as a result of the placebo effect.
The placebo effect is where the mere belief that you are supposed to get better helps your body actually recover from whatever it is that it's fighting.
So, most success stories of herbal medicine and alternative medicine as a whole happen because of the placebo effect and not due to an actual miracle or due to some actual quality of the plant itself.
The problem with this is that now, after it helped once, it makes people all excited and believe that there's really something in the herbs themselves that's just not there.
And then, the next time that they will need it, they will immediately try this instead of trying other more reliable alternatives, and there's no guarantee for it to work a second time.
Additionally, if it's just a placebo effect, it should operate equally with conventional medicine as well.
It should be an equal impact or an equal effect as long as we are able to convince the patient that he should now be all better.
So, we don't really need herbal medicine to get this positive impact.
Another point to make is that most people who turn to such alternative forms of medicine, like herbal medicine, are incredibly desperate people who are suffering from an illness and will do pretty much anything to get better.
These are people who are desperately seeking sources of hope and are therefore much more easy to take advantage of.
It's much easier to convince them to try all sorts of dubious treatments and in the process, squeeze a lot of money from them.
As long as herbal medicine is allowed, it's an open invitation for con artists and so even if there are some honest people who practice herbal medicine and truly believe it helps and do it out of the kindness of their hearts and with pure intentions, we simply have no way of telling them apart from dishonest people that we should definitely ban from practicing it.
And so, a blanket policy ban is required.
We should definitely, for all these reasons, ban herbal medicine.