We should lower the age of consent.
I would say that as opposed to the status quo, where the legal age of consent varies between sixteen to seventeen to eighteen according to states, we should simply lower it unanimously to let's say fifteen, so that in certain states there would hardly be any major difference felt whereas in others there will be a little more.
Why should we do this?
Well first of all I think that it's quite obvious and like it makes sense.
That it's incredibly random and ridiculous and even unfair to have this age vary between different states.
So the unification by itself starts to make more sense.
But that's answer why lower it then rather than raising it.
Note this isn't a debate about what we may or may not think is the appropriate age for children to start having sex.
It has nothing to do with it.
This is a debate about when does having sex with someone should be considered criminal despite it being consensual.
Sex should only be considered a criminal offense if it's done without consent or if there is no possible way to treat the consent that was given as genuinely granted.
Thus if I slipped someone a roofie and then carried on to have sex with her, I can't seriously claim that she consented because she was under the influence of the roofie.
That would be criminal.
In the same way we consider having sex with a consenting minor like we can we treat it the same way.
So the question we should ask ourselves is at what age can we really see the explicit consent from someone as equivalent in its meaninglessness to someone under the influence of drugs?
We believe that there is absolutely no reason to treat seventeen or sixteen year olds like people who are utterly incapable of genuinely conceding.
Perhaps a few generations ago seventeen or eighteen was more appropriate for the age of consent but today children go through puberty faster.
There have been significant changes both physically and mentally in the pace teenagers grow up.
Physical changes occur sooner than before.
Perhaps due to changes in consumed food.
I don't know.
Puberty just hits sooner.
But also mentally kids today get exposed to sexual content through popular culture, movies, televisions and so on way sooner than a generation or two ago.
Things aren't as innocent as they were and that's fine but this means that whether we like it or not many children at the age of fifteen already have sex today.
Not to mention sixteen or seventeen.
Sexual curiosity comes with puberty.
That's just how it goes.
And some of them they want to have sex with partners who are a couple of years older and that's also fine.
Can some kids get hurt by this?
Sure.
But there's just no ground for a criminal offense here as long as it was consensual.
We think that it's incredibly unjust to criminalize someone for merely sleeping with his girlfriend who wants it just as much as he does, but happens to be like two or three years younger.
Obviously the line should be drawn somewhere since there there's definitely an age where you can't possibly genuinely readily readily concede.
Like if you're a ten year old right?
And of course then no matter where we draw the line there would be cases for which it would be too high and cases for which it is too low.
But setting this bar on eighteen or seventeen is just way too high.
It doesn't really prevent curious children from having sex because no force of nature is strong enough to do that.
It just turns many innocent people who have wronged no one into criminals.
We must lower the age of consent.