John maynard keynes taught us that at times of financial lows, the smartest thing to do is to invest in invigorating and inducing the economy, even at the price of budget deficits and debt accumulation because this is going to be an investment that pays off very nicely in the long term.
We are going to explain how fighting unemployment and creating new jobs benefits everyone and why this is going to pay off, especially to the rich.
So, keynes observed the united states after the great depression and saw that the current neoclassic approach that the establishment is adopting of not intervening in the market isn't proving useful.
What he found was that unemployment, when allowed to roam free, easily leads to more unemployment and to a continuous drop in growth.
And the explanation is simple: when people become unemployed, they lose their purchasing power and they are forced to consume less.
Thus, on an aggregate level, the demand for merchandise lowers and therefore, companies are forced to also lower the supply.
For that, they need much less workers so they have no choice but to fire more workers, which, in turn, widens the circle of unemployment and so, we create a cycle that is quickly spinning to the bottom.
The good news that keynes found was that the same multiplier effect also works symmetrically upwards.
As soon as unemployment drops, the purchasing power goes up, people buy more, companies produce more so they hire more people and so on and so forth.
The conclusion from all of this is that an initial investment of the state in creating jobs at the amount of ex is going to lead to a financial growth that is a few times bigger than ex, which allows for a quick return of the investment, therefore, it is a smart investment.
Under keynes' influence, roosevelt came out with his new deal that has proven to be a huge success and saved the american economy from complete collapse.
To tie it back to our motion, the american jobs act was meant to help the markets recover after the damage of the subprime crisis in the exact same manner that the new deal has before.
Note that this is not only the poor that that are going to benefit from it, but also, and maybe even especially, the rich because everything is interconnected.
So, even if they are now being taxed more than before, obviously, the the rise in growth affects the rich perhaps more than anyone else because once new jobs are formed, it is going to be their companies, it is going to be their factories that are going to enjoy this boost.
This means that basically, when the when the rich are complaining that now they're going to be taxed more, they're essentially complaining on not being able to have their cake and eat it and we're not even discussing how unfair that is.
We say something much more elementary.
We say that it is simply unwise.
Not intervening in the market seems like a great idea when everything goes well, but in times of financial lows, in times where recovery is needed, we must help the market step out of the shadow.
Very proud to support the american jobs acts.