The free market should be protected.
In this debate side government believes that the best way in which the economy needs to be organized is in the way in the form of a free market in which the government is only used to protect the competition with an antitrust authority and things of this sort, and intervene as little as possible.
Now this doesn't mean that a free market is perfect and that there are no problems in a free market, but it does mean that the problems that the free market are preferable to the inherent problems that are created when the government chooses to intervene.
Right off the start, we'd like to mention that all of the countries in the world with the strongest economies are countries that zealously protect their free market system.
Yes, also the social democratic countries of scandinavia.
Alongside a high taxation rate and and very advanced social services, they usually try and avoid interventions that are that will harm the free competition in the markets.
So the first argument, and probably the most famous one in favor of a free market is what economists call the first welfare theorem.
And it means that, it says that without intervention the market knows how to allocate resources in a pareto efficient fashion.
Simply put, this means that given a situation in which each individual is free to enter any type of transaction with any other individual, people will continue to trade and to transact with one another up until that point in which there are no longer transactions that are mutually beneficial, meaning up until the pareto efficient point.
Now when the government does intervene in the market, these like the conditions are broken and this theorem like ceases to exist.
Because if the government, for example, decides on a minimum wages or limits in anyway my ability to open a new business, then by definition this means that there exists transactions that both sides could have potentially benefited from but now cannot take place.
The second argument deals with the government failures.
And we can roughly divide the types of problems with government intervention into two categories: first category is like problems that that stem from the fact that governments are a political body.
This means that they have an ideological agenda and they are heavily influenced by lobbyists and pressure groups and special interest groups.
All of these, by definition, operate against the interests of the majority of the population.
And once such a body is granted with an ability to steer and control the market, this tends to like be expressed with decisions that are political, that benefit one sector and harm a lot of others.
The second category of problems is that like even if the government is somehow able to separate between narrow interest politics and its financial policy, which we don't think that it can, say even if that even if that happens, the market is a huge and very complicated things that includes countless interactions between different people, and that is literally impossible to predict how like how the market is going to respond to changes in policy.
And so many many times we see that governments wish to intervene out of good intentions but the outcome is completely opposite from what they try to achieve.
So, for example, when we try to raise the minimum wages in order to benefit with the weakest workers, the result is that they are the ones that lose their jobs.
As for equality, which is usually the like main argument against the free market.
There's no doubt that adopting a free market means giving up on on the aspiration for equality, but this comes with the added benefit of better absolute terms for everybody, including the lower class.
This is while countries that prioritize equality before a free market are getting equality in which everyone are very poor.
It's hard to be a serious person and not see that this is what's going on in the world and quite frankly, we prefer the former.
Please propose.