Three points in this speech.
We're gonna talk about minorities, we're going to talk about effective governing, and we're going to talk about political extortion.
First argument.
Minorities.
So side government tell us that minorities are getting screwed in the two party system and that it's like democracy's job to defend minorities.
Well, yeah, defend minorities as in making sure that the majority doesn't trample over the civic rights of minorities, and that is done through separation of powers, through the judicial system and so on.
Defending minorities really does not mean making sure that their ideas are the ones that are going to win.
That is in fact exactly democracy's job to make sure that's not what happens.
The alternative to the two party system is allowing minorities to get unproportional power.
We're going to explain it on our third point why is this true, and why this is even worse than not having them get a full like appropriate representation.
Second argument.
So shimon tells us that with two parties it is harder to pass big hard decisions, and we find that funny because effective governing is a classic opposition point in this debate, and it seems that later in his speech shimon acknowledges that too.
Anyway, the reason for it is just that the counterfactual, where there is a variety of small parties, is still one in which it is necessary to get a majority in parliament, and that means building a coalition.
This means a couple of things.
A, when building a coalition you have to find a way to recruit like all of the parties.
You need the religious party, you need the party that advocates gay rights, you need the feminist party, you need the party of cattle owners from like the south, you need the jewish party.
This by definition means that you have to shallow yourself down to the most like to the lowest common denominator, and effectively do nothing.
B, coalitions mean coalition agreements.
This means that in order for a sectorial party that I am dependent on in order to obtain a majority in the parliament, for them to agree to sit with me, I have to to like promise her some promises.
More about that in the in the third argument, but the bottom line here is that it's simply impossible to act when there are too many factors and sectorial interests that the government has to take into account at every given step.
In cases of two party systems, this gets relatively easier and that's how you get true change.
Note, the reason that it's so important is that without the government being able to actually execute policy, and we simply reshape deadlock every time, then there is no point to the question of whether this is a government that represents minorities or doesn't.
Nobody is happy that way.
Third argument.
Extortion.
So next shimon says that it's great that it would take a bit longer for the government to operate, because this way we get more checks and balances.
Let's put aside the fact that in two party system as well we have separations of powers, we have opposition, we have the courts, we have the press, we have international pressure and more and more and more things.
But we say that extortionism is like that the coalition based system demands, isn't an appropriate check or an appropriate balance, it is rather the contrary.
Many times what happens is that we have a sector in society that is without a doubt the minority but a rather significant minority, and it is being represented by one party.
Let's take for example the orthodox jews in in israeli politics.
Being a pretty big constituency, they become a pivotal player and they get effectively the ability to determine what side is going to win the majority in parliament, depending on who they will go with.
This grants them immense political capital.
What we indeed see in the case of the religious parties in israel, is that for years on end they play the same dominant strategy of always entering the coalition, and are able to score unbelievable preferential treatments to their populations by means of political extortion.
Note, this is worse than a situation in which minorities suffer from a lack of representation, because when the minority gets to rule over the majority, this means that more people are now not getting what they want to.
Please oppose.