We should subsidize electric cars.
Electric cars are the future.
There's little doubt about that.
We say that sometimes even the future needs a little push.
Two arguments in this speech.
A, on why electric cars are vastly better than just normal cars that operate on fuel, and secondly, why do we think that a subsidy is required.
First argument, let's make this short because we think it's fairly obvious and if opposition chooses to oppose this then we will further elaborate in the rebuttal speech.
Three reasons on why we think electric cars are infinitely more beneficial.
A, there is an ongoing crisis of fuel in the world and sooner or later this nonrenewable resource is going to dwindle down and become more and more expensive and we're all going to be in a very serious problem.
B, the pollution that results from the emissions that these cars admit is immense.
C, relying on fuel forces the entire world to become dependent on countries that are very rich with oil what creates some very severe diplomatic problems.
Transition like a smooth transition to electric cars solves all of these problems once and for all.
Now obviously there are some technical problems today with electric cars but that is the function of the like amount of demand that is not wide enough today as it is for normal cars.
We say that once more and more people are going to use this then all of these small technical problems are going to go away eventually.
Second argument, why do we think that a subsidy is in place?
So allegedly the logic of the free market and the open competition says that if the product that we're talking about is so good that it will prevail on its own and there is no need to help the process in an artificial way, but in reality, things don't always work like that.
In reality electric cars had the huge misfortune of posing a threat to not just one but several of the most powerful lobbies in the world.
We are mainly discussing discussing of course the car industry and the fuel industry, and we think that the reasons for this goes without saying.
Why is this important though, because not only is developing those like electric cars that work good enough, is a huge investment on its own, but you also have to deploy like infrastructure which means that cooperation from state officials is crucial here.
At the point at which all of the people that you are dependent on in order to like develop your product are currently under immense pressure from lobbyists to operate against you, then you find yourself waging an uphill battle and it no longer matters how good your product is you will simply not be successful at producing a product that is going to be like cheap enough in order for there to be to be like demand for it.
So what happens today is that we have a small group of very wealthy people with a very strong incentive, an interest, that is successful in withholding changes that could potentially revolutionize the life of everyone in society and improve everyone's conditions, but nobody has a strong enough incentive or a strong enough interest in order to fight this.
This is a classic collective action problem.
Why is subsidy going to be helpful in this case?
We say that the subsidy is going to help to in like in balancing all of these hostile factors that are in play and restore the competitiveness to the automobile market.
It is like we can think of it as a smart investment for the long run because as soon as the electric car is going to be the most common tool of transportation, then we get all of the all of the benefits that we've discussed earlier both environmental benefits and financial benefits and we say that aside from a few filthy rich industrialists everyone is going to be better off.
Please propose.