A global language is advantageous.
Like the story of the tower of babylon, languages can set people apart and create artificial barriers between different groups.
We think that in a world in which everyone speak english for example, is a world that's much more inter-connected in which wars become less likely, in which it is much harder for rich countries to take advantage of or at least ignore the plight of poorer countries in which businesses can blossom.
Opposition are going to try and talk about the importance of language to the collective particular unique identity of peoples.
Let's help them understand exactly what their burdens are in this debate.
A, they're going to have to show you why it's necessarily mutually exclusive.
Why if there is a global language that everyone can understand this necessarily means the extinction completely of all other languages that are so deeply rooted in the cultures and the lives of people all around the world.
This is a very hard burden because in many parts around the world today it is already the fact of the situation that english is being used as an international language and everyone studies it from a young age and that's the you know, the language of business and so on and it doesn't come at the expense of the original mother tongue.
Look at me I debate in english with a bunch of americans and I still think and dream in hebrew.
I don't feel that this affects my identity.
B, even if they're successful in explaining why one comes at the expense of the other they're going to have to clarify why is it that a language is a necessary condition to the formation of a particular identity?
Why in a world in which everyone speaks english, by the way, in which in all likelihood there's going to be slightly different dialects and accents in different areas, why can't there be still cultural ingredients like other cultural ingredients that will provide the exact same feeling of collective identity that side opposition want to preserve so much?
Let's look at what's happening in the anglo sphere countries england, the united states, canada, australia, ireland, new zealand.
Does opposition really think that those countries don't have a particular identity in the unique culture in which the citizens can take pride in?
This is just factually not not what's happening, and c lastly, even if they are some somehow magically successful in explaining why is it that people are going to lose their unique sense of identity they still would have to weigh this and explain why on earth is it more important than all of the advantages that we get from a global language?
In that I will explain right away.
So my mother's tongue has been determined quite randomly as like as a as a result of the place to to which I was born.
It doesn't say anything about me as an individual, no more than the color of my skin, or my nationality, and yet just like skin color and nationality language is being used as a tool that is very convenient in order to separate the world and divide it into different categories of people, and it's very easy for people to determine according to language who is in their camp and who is different from them.
These divisions also defines who I'm going to sympathize with and feel a shared sense if destiny with, and because this is random we think that this division is completely false.
We think that it's not rational that I will identify and feel associated with a person that thinks not like me on every subject and matter, and don't feel associated with the person that does share my beliefs and values just because the former speaks my language and the latter doesn't, and also more important than that we think that this division also determines who I can easily ignore in the best case and outright dislike in the worst case, and we think that it's too easy today for populistic leaders to convince their citizens that the citizens of another country is their are there enemies.
It's too easy for israelis to hate palestinians or iranians and the opposite.
It's too easy for americans to hate the russians and the opposite.
We think that this has become easy because the language barrier and the differences like cultural differences that result from it are too grave in order for common people to just start talking one to one another in like in a direct way, and see that they're not so different from one another.
We think this is also makes like this also makes it too easy to forget what's happening in countries like africa and in countries countries in southeast asia because they're not like us.
We think that a world with a global language helps to solve all of these things.
Therefore we're proud to propose.