When eitan talks about the advantages and disadvantages of fluoridization being clear cut he is mistaken.
They are not.
We are talking about a subject that is deeply debated among experts from the scientific community.
It is very far from being settled.
So much so that many health organizations including the european commission itself continue to firmly state that they are opposed to this notion that that is a positive thing.
Even if there are empirical findings that supports the advantages of fluoridization they should be taken with a grain of salt.
Why?
A, because there also exist many opposite researches with findings that contradict these conclusions.
B, because often these researches are being funded by bodies with an a financial agenda in a policy of fluoridization, therefore their objectivity is compromised.
C, because the data that they are based on isn't comprehensive enough.
That's simply because this policy doesn't exist long enough in order for us to be able to truly gauge the long term effects of this policy.
And d, as a result, even if it's true that fluoride helps deal with cavity, eventually we're talking about a chemical that there is no real way of knowing what other negative effects it might have and if we won't know what we're looking for then obviously this won't come up in the research.
Take for example, the decades that it took us until we were able to realize the horrible effects of smoking or cell phone radiation to people's health.
And despite the fact that there were many many studies that showed otherwise.
So eitan's entire comparative analysis is based on partial data that whose credibility bears a question mark.
Therefore it is irrelevant for this debate.
What is relevant to the debate is then is the following question, given that the long term medical implications of a certain step are not a hundred percent certain, is it legitimate to force the entire population to become guinea pigs in a huge experiment of the state or rather it is better to allow each citizen to choose for himself what he believes in.
We strongly believe that the latter is the more legitimate way.
When it comes to my health or to the integrity of my body I have complete autonomy to act according to my own judgment.
Take for instance the fact that we do not ban people from smoking cigarettes even though it is clear to us today that this is extremely unhealthy.
Consider the fact that we cannot force people to commit themselves to hospitals and undergo treatments that they're not interested in undergoing even if we're really convinced that this is an efficient treatment.
Same goes with vaccinations.
We do not force people to take vaccines even if we're really certain that they are good ones and in places where it is being forced then we think that it's illegitimate.
So if the principle of allowing choice is right in these instances, where there is a relatively big consensus as to the benefits or medical harms of something, then clearly the same principle should be applied in cases where we are even less certain like with fluoride.
Regarding the point that like ways between financial heart benefits and and damages we think that it's irrelevant to the debate as well just because we can say that it's like the choice of people to smoke burdens the society financially and we still allow people this freedom because we care more about the independence of our citizens than we do about the few extra bucks.
Please oppose.