During the last decade or so the global community has witnessed a continuous dwindling down in natural resources that according to many experts are already inevitably going to lead to a crisis.
And this simply happens because the earth's population steadily rises and the average amount of energy that each human being consumes during his lifetime grows exponentially.
So it's pretty easy to imagine that soon enough we are going to start running out of very much needed resources.
When that happens that doesn't just mean less iphones and tablets, this basically means no more electricity.
The good news is that while people have mercilessly drained and continue to drain every ounce of natural gas from the rest of the planet, we still have an entire continent to explore and that's antarctica.
Let's answer some of the concerns raised by shimon one after the other.
Regarding environment shimon tells us that it would be best to not touch antarctica because the environment is eventually one huge interconnected eco system and therefore every like blow that the environment suffers in one place harms everyone in another place.
We say that's exactly right but the thing is that as long as we're not using the natural gas that antarctica has to offer we have to rely a lot heavier on using other parts of the world, deepening the destruction of other echo chambers in search for more resources and to increase the amount of emitting pollute polluting emissions that creates like holes in the ozone layer.
So according to shimon's analysis this is harmful to everyone including antarctica.
So it's because we agree that we think that it would be best to simply spread out the amount of damage on a an area as wide as possible rather than concentrating all of the harm to the environment on several eh like specific areas of the world.
Because that would be a safe sure way to create a lot more damage much faster.
Regarding politics and wars, we think that's a problem that is very easy to solve because today there are several countries with territorial claims on the area but they did have the sense to sign treaties that would prevent them from finding each other.
Why wouldn't they simply add another chapter to that treaty that regulates the equal distribution of revenues from taxing like private enterprises that that wish to drill in the continent.
Why not do that?
In the status quo no country like all of the countries don't gain anything from their control of the area.
So we don't really think that any country would have a particular reason to resist it.
If I'm not profiting today and I have the option of gaining something tomorrow than the rational thing to do would be to agree.
We think that would be a much better way to both prevent all the wars that shimon warns us about, but also make sure that we have incentives to like allow the usage, the smart usage, and safe usage of these resources.
Please do not leave a hidden treasure buried in the ground.
Please oppose the motion