Before we begin there is something that, at least to me, was remained unclear in the mechanism, and that is the question of what exactly is going to get subsidized and what isn't.
Do liberal arts studies or humanities studies are they going to get the same full funding like computer science or engineering?
We think that this is important because no matter what the answer is going to be, this raises some serious questions and difficulties but anyway, we're going to put that aside for now in the hope that government will make this clear in the next speech.
So, side government is asking to convince us in the following things: a, education, no matter what age, is a basic right.
B, if there is a basic right, then this automatically means that the government is also responsible to fully fund this.
C, subsidizing, like a full subsidy of higher education, is going to be a smart investment that pays off in the long run, both economically and socially.
We disagree with literally every one of those stages.
Let's explain why.
Firstly, on education in every age being a basic right.
So government basically start by saying: look, we can all agree that primary education is a basic right and therefore, we must agree that that higher education is also a basic right.
Now that is a logical leap.
There are plenty of protections and special rights that we provide children but not adults.
Children are protected, for instance, from criminal liability.
And according to government's logic, if that is true, then this should also apply to adults.
This is of course absurd.
Specifically, the line that we cross between primary education to higher education isn't at all random.
Primary education is a crucial condition to succeed in life, no matter what field you're going to to find yourself in.
And that's what makes it a basic right.
It is also a tool of the state to create a shared basis of knowledge to all of the citizens, sort of a way to shape the shared narrative and the collective identity of the nation.
Higher education, on the other hand, isn't a crucial condition in plenty in like a lot of fields and and frankly, in the previous years, it is becoming less and less critical for success.
In addition, there is also no element of like a a shared foundation here because everybody studies different things entirely, so no, this is not a basic right.
Secondly, even if we were to agree that this is a basic right, this doesn't automatically mean that the government need to completely fully fund it.
Food is also a basic right, right?
And still the state helps you very partially and does not provide food for everyone free.
We need to say this very clearly.
The state already participates today in the funding of higher education in public institutes but in a partial way.
We think that demanding that it will provide for all of it is simply a misguided way of perceiving what the state's role is.
Why isn't it enough to fund scholarships for less well-off students and continue collecting money from students that have no problem to fund themselves, for instance?
And lastly, we get to the question of whether this is a smart investment.
Now, as I have already hinted, higher education might have been critical for success in the market ten years ago or fifteen years ago, but the market is rapidly changing today and more and more of the most desired job places, for instance, in google or facebook, don't even demand a an academic title.
We think that before we run off to spend billions of dollars on higher education free for everybody, then it's worth at least heavily considering these institutional changes, and that is something that side government isn't even considering.
For all these reasons, please oppose.