I'll address the points made by side government, and then I'll move on to my constructive argument.
So, the first thing, that the previous speaker tells you, is that the government has a responsibility to educate to sex, just like the government needs to educate its pupils in any other aspect.
So, firstly, it's just not true that school teaches you everything.
Not even everything that matters.
School doesn't teach you how to drive, or how to ride a bike, or manners, or most schools don't teach you how to swim, these are all purely the responsibility of parents.
Like even if the parents are not an expert on the matter, by the way.
More specifically, the school tries very very hard to avoid discussing issues that are controversial, there are no talks about politics in the classroom, you don't speak in favor or against any particular religion, and that's important, that's super important, in the context of this debate.
We'll get to that on the constructive.
Secondly, they tell you why they shouldn' like why they think that parents shouldn't be the ones that educate children on sex.
Why?
Because they're no experts on sex education, they are not an expert on how to use contraception, or on STD's.
Now, that might be true, but we really don't think that the critical part really needs to be explaining the biology behind STD's, or behind getting pregnant, or whatever.
Come on, everybody knows just how much safe sex is important, and everyone can explain to their children about condoms or pills.
In fact in ninety nine percent of the cases, we are not even certain that you really need the parents, or the teachers, in order to explain this to high school children.
They watch it in movies, and on television, they hear about it from older siblings, or friends that have older siblings, just like tim says, and it's just really basic common knowledge.
And you know what?
That's fine, we don't really need all of the most professional details, all we need is that the message come across, that, by the end of the day, you need to be careful.
It doesn't matter how deeply or professionally we'll discuss this.
Lastly, they talk about the huge impact.
They say that now, places where there are no sex education classes, children will have unsafe sex, and will get knocked up, and catch ST diesel over the place, and come on, we think that to truly believe that high school kids need their teachers in order to learn anything about sex is just super naive.
There is nothing new that they learn in these classes, it's just a sort of a like awkward and embarrassing experience.
Maybe sometimes it can be a little bit funny experience, but nobody, and I mean nobody, takes it seriously.
So it seems preposterous for us to assume that sex ed classes are what helps you avoid child pregnancies.
Now, I don't know where tim gets his data from, on like places without sex education having more problems, but they don't sound reliable, and even if they are, they only establish a correlation at best, and not a causation.
To the constructive, so I want to talk about what tim avoids talking about, and these are specific populations that this proposition is going to be very very problematic for.
And we're talking of course about religious populations, where any type of sexual education, that is not abstinence only, will be perceived by parents as an attempt of the school, or of the state, to corrupt their children.
And we think that the potential to backlash, in this sensitive matter, is huge.
As we've already mentioned earlier, schools avoid inserting politics into the classroom, and there's no way around this.
Sex is a political issue.
It always has been, it always will be, and you know the reason that we don't like to meddle with politics in the schools is twofold: a, it is unclear to us, that the school has the mandate to really decide on matters that are controversial, and has to do with principles and morals.
A teacher has an authority over children, sense it is his job to provide them with knowledge.
They must assume that whatever he says is true, without doubting him too much.
Now if teachers will start discussing issues that are not clear cut, and will make a stand, in this case, like making a stand, for instance, that having sex in a like having sex in a young age, or before marriage is acceptable, then they are doing something unfair.
They are abusing their power and their authority.
Secondly, we say that in order for the teacher's status not to be harmed, we want to avoid unnecessary conflict between teachers and parents.
If I hear that my child is hearing from his teacher all sorts of things that I oppose, I will just tell my child not to listen to anything that that teacher says.
My child is now torn between two different systems of authority, that tell him opposing things, and that puts him in an impossible situation.
For all of these reasons, please oppose.