We should ban child performers.
We don't think that there is a crucial difference, between children that work in the entertainment industry, and other forms of child labor, that society goes out conclusively against.
Let's assume for a minute, that there's this twelve year old kid that dreams of becoming a successful doctor.
Let's also assume, that he's a medical prodigy, and that he has read everything there is to read about medicine.
Does opposition think, that it would be okay to allow him to open a clinic, while he's still in school, and practice medicine?
If not, they need to explain to us, what's the difference between him and the child that plays the piano.
First argument: children are just not mature enough to decide.
So, one of the main reasons, that we oppose child labor in the status quo, is that children haven't yet developed the cognitive ability to rationally decide what they would like to do in the future.
That is, like, also why we just don't let them vote in the election, or not even have criminal responsibility.
And it's not just a matter of rationality, children haven't yet developed their personality.
They develop themselves, and shape themselves through adolescence, and oftentimes, they completely change from end to end.
Why is this important?
Because, for many children, that start appearing on the stage from a young age, and get famous, there isn't really an alternative later on.
They cannot really choose to leave the business, because they've already invested so much of their childhood in this, and not in basic education.
Therefore, they have serious gaps in very basic skills and abilities.
But also, because they have become a brand, in which a lot of financial interest, for many many people, are involved.
Taylor swift, for instance, cannot realistically choose today to stop being a celebrity, and start working as a lawyer.
Bottom line, children need these innocent years, in which they don't have to think about their careers, and what they're going to be when they grow up, and this thing robs them of that innocence.
Second argument: parents that live vicariously through their children.
So, opposition can like react to our first argument, by saying that it's true that children cannot decide, but, in such a situation, the parents can decide for the children, just like they can send them off to you know, just learn football after school, and pressure them to invest most of their time doing that.
We say that specifically, when it comes to child performers, there are many parents that are trying to achieve their unfulfilled own aspirations in life for glory, through their children, and therefore, it is just not true that they have their children's best interests at heart.
And, and therefore they shouldn't be allowed to get to to make that decision in this particular instance.
Last argument: the temptations that come with fame.
So, the world of show business isn't as glamorous as it seems.
We see, time and again, celebrities that fame and success has gone up to their head, and they didn't have the mental capacity to cope with that, and they had to face, and struggle through, depressions in all types of you know addictions, and, that is especially true to cases of children like of people that have have been famous since a very young age: britney spears, riana, amy winehouse, justin bieber, miley cyrus, and numerous other examples.
Now, this happens because life under the public eye strip you of your privacy, and and like alongside with it, you face very hard temptations, like sex, and drugs, and and so on.
And we say that, children, most times, are just not equipped with the capacity to resist to all of that, and that ruins their lives.
All in all, we're very very proud to propose.