Imagine building a home with a person you love, raising children, going through life side by side, and then one day, they meet someone new and abruptly decide to go off with him or her, devastating all that you have in life.
Situations like these are more and more common today, and we believe that when there is mutual consent, it's totally reasonable, and even responsible, for a couple to seek to protect themselves from this happening to them.
We'll have two points.
One: why is it okay for a person to willfully bind himself and prevent himself from changing his mind, and two: how covenant marriages are effective in preventing rash decisions.
First argument: okay, is it okay to willfully bind yourself?
That's a hard question.
On one hand, if we look at contractual law, for example, we acknowledge the idea of reliance.
If you sign a contract and then change your mind, then there are sanctions, at least, that could prevent you from doing that, because the other party had relied on your word and acted upon it in ways which he otherwise wouldn't have.
On the other hand, we don't allow people to sign contracts for life, from which they can't opt out.
You can't willfully become a slave, right?
So, what we're looking for here is a balance between the two extremes.
Covenant marriage don't make it impossible for you to opt out, just harder.
It's worth noting that when it comes to matters of family and personal life, decisions are by nature more binding and serious than in one's professional life, because the reliance interest of the parties is of a different nature.
There's more at stake than just money here.
Your family's at stake, the very thing that defines who and what you are.
The decision to have children, for example, is obviously one that binds you for life, because it fundamentally affects the life of other people, your child in this case.
It's also worth noting that one of the reasons people get married in the first place is precisely to get this guarantee of crystallizing the relationship and making it harder to dissolve.
But with the divorce rates in the status quo, it's understandable if some couple feels that conventional marriage just aren't enough of a guarantee anymore and greater deterrent is needed.
Bottom line: we believe that covenant marriage constitute a perfectly reasonable balance, and we have no good reason not to allow people that want to make this commitment from making it.
Second argument: going through a divorce is an excruciating and expensive process that often leaves the two sides at even worse terms than they were in the beginning, and that mentally scars the children for life.
Sometimes having a divorce is necessary, no doubt.
However, it seems that instead of a last resort option, this has become quite a popular fix for marriage difficulties.
More and more couples choose to divorce rather than work hard to salvage their marriage.
We believe that in many cases, people take this decision too lightly and too quickly.
It's a sort of a loop, right, because everyone around me are doing it, this seems normal and so I'll do it.
When this is the social norm, then every little argument between a couple can quickly escalate into a divorce.
However, not everyone really bother to factor in just how badly this affects their children or themselves in the long run.
It is a fact that many couples end up remarrying after wasting valuable time and resources fighting each other.
Maybe having an arrangement that forces you to give it time and use up other options, like counsel, before terminating your marriage, can help prevent a lot of heartache and headache for everybody.
So, opposition might want to talk about what happens when just one party is interested in ending the marriage, and how this makes this much harder for them.
To which we would say that if a couple chose to opt for covenant marriage, this means that family values is a thing that they hold dear, and so they knew what they're getting into and decided this insurance policy is worth the risk of exactly this happening.
So, we should respect this decision.
Happy to propose.