So the huge problem that side government has with personality tests is that they are not one hundred percent accurate tools in predicting a person's success in a new job, and this is why they seek to abolish them.
But please note that according to this logic, we would also have to abolish standardized tests as a whole, personal interviews, CVs, personal references and recommendations.
All of these things are just as inaccurate or incapable of predicting one's chances of thriving in a future work environment.
Why is this true?
It's true because all of these things suffer from the exact same problems that tim mentions regarding personality tests.
Please note: it is true what tim says that people's personalities are complex things that are impossible to sum up in one test, and it is just as hard to sum it up in one or two interviews or in a CV or in a diploma.
It is also true that, as team tells us, that these tests are very affected from one's mood.
But so are work interviews.
It is also true that people's personalities can change and fluctuate and therefore, literally any type of indication that we might have on the current personality traits of a person sitting in front of us is not necessarily truly indicative of the future.
All of these things lead to fateful decisions being taken based on partial indications and can result in errors and can meaningfully harm someone's self-confidence or whatever, practically all of the other harms laid out by tim in his speech.
But if we abolish all of these, then we would be left with no information whatsoever.
So it's really quite simple.
Some information, even if partial, is always preferable to less information.
If the purpose of side government in this debate is truly to minimize the amount of randomness and to minimize the errors in judgment while accepting people to a new job place or to a college degree, then they have to support the exact opposite position.
Look, no tool is perfect.
We can never know for sure.
So the best way to go is to try and gather as many indications and as many, you know, as much information as we can, and personality tests help in doing that.
Tim assumes for a certain reason, but never analyzes that these tests are somehow mutually exclusive to things like references and recommendations or personal interviews or other filtering tools.
But this is not true.
They are not mutually exclusive.
We don't think that there are really a lot of managers that truly believe that these tests have the power of prophecy with absolute accuracy and they count on them blindly.
People are fully aware to all of the hardships that tim has brought up in his speech.
It doesn't take a genius to think of that, sorry.
So, it's just nothing more but another tool that provides some additional insight that may prove useful in some cases.
Maybe the results of this test can be, you know, a tiebreaker between two candidates that have good credentials and it was hard to decide between them.
We have no problem with this scenario.
So to sum it all up, we think that we haven't truly heard a serious case for the abolition of these tests.
Obviously, they are not a hundred percent accurate.
It's not magic, but you know what?
It's something.
Please oppose to this motion.