Three arguments.
One, why the ability to express yourself is especially crucial in schools.
Two, why school uniform harm the ability for expression.
And three, why it cannot be justified by other means.
First argument.
Schools are meant, among other aims, to serve as a meeting meeting place for children in order for them to interact, influence one another, and learn from one other and that comes from the understanding that these mutually fruitful interactions play a vital role in one's adolescence and education.
Moreover, especially in those ages of middle school, high school when teenager teenager children naturally explore their identities and start developing their own personal like individual personalities it is important to allow them a broad spectrum of ways to express themselves and specifically their uniqueness and not to suppress or depresse it.
Second argument.
A, of course there are many other ways to express your uniqueness like without to outside of the shirt you wear.
But one cannot deny that your clothing play an important part of it.
If only thanks to the fact that it is the most sticking out thing that you possess.
It is the first thing that people notice.
You can see it from afar, it's the most effective way of catching someone's attention and that's the entire point.
B, uniform leads to uniformity, which stifles the ability and with time even the will to express yourself.
The basic idea in wearing uniform is to cancel the personal to make you some representative of somebody.
It is true to uniforms at work if you're like a flight attendant or a waiter and it is most certainly true in the case of the military.
If this idea sinks in, even unconsciously, and grabs a hold in the minds of the students they start to see themselves as another screw in the system.
Being different is starting to be perceived as something far worse when you're used to a world where everyone is behaving in the same way.
We argue then that that to a certain extent this is also true to a world where everyone dresses the same way.
It makes us used it makes us used to and with time even love uniformity and that that's certainly necessarily comes with hating difference.
This is also bad in itself but also creates a negative incentive for whoever wishes to express his uniqueness even in other ways.
Three third argument why this cannot be justified.
So proponents of a school uniform offer a few justifications and they might even come up and say you know what we accept and concede to the fact that the ability of expression is is somewhat harmed but there are other values that are being served by this and so it is justified.
But we believe that all of these justifications are very meek.
First thing that we hear is that it helps the students focus and concentrate on their studies and they and there and not to be distracted in class.
We say the first thing is it's just not that true.
We don't know many children that were unable to study just because someone was wearing a particular shirt in in the classroom and and more than that, is just less important for us because we've already said that the studying isn't the only purpose that school is supposed to serve but also like learning from one another, expressing yourself, and and finding out who you really are.
The second justification that that opposition might talk about is that it harms the feeling of like equality between students to which the answer is simple.
We say the children will always find a way to to like express their superiority and if it's not through their clothes than they are going to brag about their brand new playstation.
There is no such thing as equality among children and so this would be a very inefficient way of trying to achieve something that is simply unachievable and so there is no proper justification.
We call you to propose.