Part of the idea of going to school is to also learn how to develop social skills, important social skills, in addition to just studying in the classroom.
We think that learning how to deal with the opposite sex is a major part of that.
The entire prime minister speech is focused specifically on all-girls school and the advantages that it has in terms of strengthening the status of women.
We think that the outcome of the sexual segregation is going to be detrimental, especially to women.
A few points of rebuttal.
So the first thing that we hear is that all-girls schools create more powerful, influential women, and then they move on to analyze why it's important that there will be role models for women.
Now obviously, we would agree that role models are important, but we have never truly heard a real analysis that explains why is it that single-sex schools will create more role models than, you know, normal mixed schools.
All that we've heard is one example of hillary clinton, and of course that we can give a million examples of role models that didn't attend such schools.
So the next thing that we hear is that these schools somehow contribute to the feminist movement and creates political activists but again, we never hear any comparative analysis that will make us think that regular schools cannot contribute in the exact same way.
Next we hear about how symbolism is important and even if we would agree to that, it's completely unclear what exactly is the symbol in this debate, what it represents and who is it supposed to like speak to.
And the last thing that the previous speaker says is more interesting and that is that in the vicinity of boys, girls feel less confident to, you know, take part in class and that in a all-girl environment, this creates a safer environment that helps women develop their confidence.
Now this idea sounds plausible but but here's the problem: the real world is not a safety net.
There's no safe spaces in the job market.
Girls who leave single-sex schools will have to compete against boys.
And we say that by segregation, all that we have done is basically to delay that this, you know, clash, this meeting, until the very moment of truth and there, it's still very likely that these women will just go back to being more quiet and more invert because they've never experienced this type of competition, they haven't gained experience on how to deal with this.
On to the on to the constructive: why do we believe that specifically girls that go to single-sex schools are the most harmed?
A: because, sadly, it's very hard to ensure that the allocation of resources between all-girls schools and all-boys schools or mixed schools is going to be, you know, equal.
We think that it's kind of likely that the men that sit in the higher offices and decide where the money gets to go will be biased in favor of boys, and so they will be the ones that get the best teachers, the best programs, the best facilities, and it's been proven that all of these things are of great importance and and influence on achievements.
B: because even the most successful girl in single-sex schools, is going to always have to doubt herself and ask whether she would have been as successful had she studied with boys in the classroom as well.
And c and more most importantly: as we said, we think that a huge part of what schools are meant for is to equip you with the social interactions necessary in order to prepare you for life and society.
Segregation between boys and girls is going to necessarily cause the fact that all of these connections, all of the special connections between boys and girls that usually take place in a certain age, you know, when you start to develop awareness for your sexuality, you have your high school sweethearts and everything, so these will all have to be , you know, repressed and suppressed.
And we think that it's dangerous specifically for girls, because this might lead boys to become much more aggressive towards girls when they do meet them outside schools because all they know is the interactions between boys and boys that, you know, are often characterize with, let's say, less tenderness and sensitivity.
So bottom line: we believe that we're going to see more sexual violence towards girls.
For all of the reasons that we've mentioned, please oppose this motion.