In this speech I'm going to talk about two reasons why we think that it's crucial that we keep on having child actors in show business.
The first being like just literally that we need children to play roles of children in movies and TV shows and plays etcetera.
And the second is on child actors becoming role models for children.
But before all of that, let's address what daniel has brought to this debate.
So first he talks a great deal about how there is no consent in child acting.
To which we say yeah, like a thousand and one different things in your childhood that you didn't consent to.
Did you really consent fully go to school?
No.
Did you really consent to go to like piano lessons that your mom insisted that you go to or to the judo lessons that your dad insisted that you go to?
No.
Now say that there's a there's a kid that really wants to go to you know a football class because he dreams of becoming a football a football star.
He probably doesn't fully realize or understand all of the meaning of what it means to be like a football star.
But he might actually prove successful.
So according to government's logic we ought not let him play.
In both these cases this is something like this is a hobbit or something that takes a huge portion of your time if you do it seriously.
In both of these cases there could be pressure from the side of the parents.
So what is the difference?
Then they tell us that it's hard to enforce regulation.
And we just couldn't understand why because all that daniel said, is basically that producers find ways to bypass regulation.
Fine.
But that problem exists literally everywhere in the market.
There's nothing unique here.
If it bothers us so much, we just need to enforce harder.
And lastly they talk about the potential damages of like stress and social social seclusion.
To which we say fine, we accept that there might be problems but these harms exist in both worlds.
Why?
Because under government's world children are still going to want to be famous.
And today society has changed.
There's social media, there's social networks and it's impossible to stop someone from posting, you know, videos on youtube and becoming a sensation overnight.
Pewdiepie would be a good example to that.
This means that we can no longer really contain our children in a safe innocent environment, you know, safe from all the dangers out there in the real world.
Because they will always know how to bypass these protections and get out there way better than we do.
Necessarily.
So moving on to the constructive and the importance of having child performers.
So let's just understand for a second and appreciate the fact that under government's world there are no longer children that take part in movies, in plays, in TV shows.
Think about it for a second.
This is a drastic change that will require a very complicated adjustment for all of our cultural institutions.
This means that if we would have wanted to now do a you know movie version to the harry potter saga, then we had to do it animated, or we had to take adults that will play children.
And both of these options are far less appealing because they are far less realistic or credible.
So in the bottom line we say that show business is just different from all of the other fields in that he desperately like this is a field that desperately needs children.
There is no virtue in employing children children in the police force, or in restaurants, or in banks or supermarkets.
But society does need child actors.
And that's why in this case we make an exception and we let children work.
Beyond that we say that there's another reason why we think it's important to preserve real children that will act in in movies and that is to create role models for younger children.
Movie stars and TV stars are the heroes of your childhood.
And it's just impossible to create the same type of connection with an adult because he's not like you.
He doesn't go through the same phases and the same things and the same problems that you go through.
And you cannot imagine yourself in his shoes as a child.
Not to mention like if it would have been a cartoon right?
So we think that characters like harry potter, and that's just one example of many, are an inspiration of a totally different sort for children.
And losing this means taking away a big part of their childhood.
So for all of these reasons please oppose this motion.