We should ban fast food.
It is clear that in general, fast food is harmful to one's health.
On the other hand, it is very convenient and perhaps tasty.
The core question in this debate is when is it allowed to narrow the amount of choice of the citizens, and force upon them something for their own personal good.
So our first argument is going to be when is it justified that the country should intervene in one's own decisions, and the second argument is going to be about fast food's harms to the society as a whole, not just to the consumers.
First argument.
Generally speaking, we support the rule according to which the state cannot intervene in the citizen's decisions just in order to protect him from harming himself.
But this rule has several exceptions.
For instance, many times we prevent people from consuming things that are highly addictive, for instance heroin or cocaine, because they are a deadly combination of very big serious physical threat to one's health, and also very highly addictive.
Now, because this is so addictive, it is hard to regard to the choice of the people that consume it as a free choice that is being harmed by banning it.
Another example for an exception is when we force people to wear seat belts, even if they are driving alone in the car.
In this case, we argue, that the level of intervention is very small and unintrusive and not aggressive, but the benefit is huge and massive, and therefore we are willing not to be dogmatic and say that in this instance, there is so much benefit and so little harm that we will intervene anyways.
We think that in the case of fast food these two conditions apply.
First of all, they are certainly addictive, both physically and mentally.
People, and and most of them coming from lower socioeconomic classes, become very dependent on fast food stands, because this saves them precious time and money, because it's often cheap.
And so their ability to actually choose fast food is is very very meek at best, and a lot of them get sick and obese.
Secondly, we say that once we ban fast food, we believe that there's going to be a variety and a wealth of alternatives that are going to be just as accessible but much more healthy, simply because there's going to be a market for it.
This is just a matter of people getting used to eating food that is less fatty and more nutritious.
The level of intervention isn't big, but the benefit is.
So we think that in this particular instance, it is okay for us to intervene and break this golden rule, and, you know, of the harm principle.
Second argument.
On the damages to society as a whole.
So even if you're not convinced that the harm to whoever eats fast food is enough of a reason to ban this, we think that there is also a concrete damage to the entire society.
Because once once something, and like it's clear that once something is poses a threat to society, then society is justified in banning it, in protecting itself, right?
So with obesity on the rise, specifically among children, with heart disease being the primary source of mortality in the western world, and more and more people become too sick to actually work and require expensive health treatments, this creates a huge burden on the entire society.
This is why society has a collective interest in safeguarding the health of its citizens.
When a person harms his own health, he also harms his ability to be a productive citizen to society.
Now on the individual level, this harm might be negligible.
But when we look at it on the collective level, this amounts to a very serious harm.
And this provides us with all the justification in the world to intervene.
For all of these reasons, please propose.