We should abolish the american jobs act.
So obama found a magical way to spend roughly four hundred and fifty billion dollars worth of federal budget money without adding more debt to the national deficit.
I wonder what his secret could be.
Here are a few guesses of mine: either cutting drastically on other services, which democrats aren't exactly notoriously famous for doing, or raising taxes, which has an adverse effect on jobs growth, or printing money, which is basically just another indirect way to be raising taxes.
Because inflations then take away people's purchasing power in real terms.
These are all very shady options.
So if indeed it's none of the above, then truly this is magic and one could ask why haven't we been using it thus far.
Because it doesn't exist.
So crucially what I want to bring is the question that stands in the heart of this debate is the idea of like the keynesian idea of supply side economics.
And that the entire ACA is practically build upon.
We inside government argue that it simply doesn't work in real life.
So, the argument of this theory is that government skins stimulates the economy in times of recession by spending money on salaries for new public employees and artificially creating many new job places.
Keynes even famously said that it would be advisable for the government to hire people to dig holes in the ground and then hire a different bunch people to fill those holes up.
As long as people are put to work everything will be better.
Since now people make more money they can spend more money, which raises demand for commodities which then cause people to produce more, which cause in like in turn employers to hire more people and so we have a cycle, and we get what we what is called the keynesian multiplier effect.
Well, here is the problem.
For this theory to work the government has to like act in what is called an anti-cyclical policy.
They need to invest in the market when the economy is in a recession, even at the expense of accumulating debt, and then they need to cut expenses back when the market recovers.
The thing is that the public sector is an entity with a very strong natural inclination to just keep on growing and expanding.
And once it's being expanded once it's really really hard to stop it, let alone reverse this trend and shrink it back.
And this happens because because cutting cutting costs means firing people, which is never popular like politically.
And because governments also get used to this idea that you could just accumulate more and more debt and nothing will ever happen.
Everything is fine.
But not everything is fine, as we can learn from the example of countries like greece or spain.
So, what happens is, in the short term, this policy seems like a quick magical fix because we're being promised that it's a one time a temporary stimulus thing, but what always happens in the long run is that it like it turns out that, it turns out to be less temporary than we thought it would be and that's just reckless economic behavior.
So because the american jobs act is essentially nothing more than just a new a new version of supply side economics, that has been proven to fail before.
Please propose the motion.