We should not subsidize cultivation of tobacco.
I'll have two points in my speech.
First on how subsidizing tobacco production is endorsing the consumption of tobacco, which is the opposite of what we want, and a second point about the consequences for tobacco manufacturers once we end this subsidy.
So, first point: cigarettes aren't only bad for the smokers health, but are a huge financial liability on the entire society.
It costs huge amounts of money to provide health services for smokers who get ill, you know, mortality rates go up, and the fact that many smokers become less productive and less able to work at younger ages, these are all things that we need to factor in that harm the market and the entire economy.
We also spend a lot of money on public campaigns trying to educate the public about the dangers and harms of smoking.
This also costs a lot of money.
So, in short, it is obviously in the government's interest to disincentive and discourage people from smoking.
It doesn't make any sense to do all of these things and then, at the same time, to financially incentivize tobacco consumption and basically say to people, " hey, we want you to keep your job growing tobacco and selling cigarettes to our citizens, but we don't want our citizens to be consuming your product. "
Some countries even impose a sin tax on tobacco consumption that's entire goal is to disincentivize people from smoking.
This means that the very money that the government is getting from sin tax goes back to help production, and then lowers back the price of cigarettes down, and so this is an entirely circular circular, nonsensical financial system.
But not only does this not make any financial sense, but it also creates a strong local lobby for of tobacco manufacturers.
And as long as such a strong lobby exists, there's going to be aggressive advertising for cigarette companies, and this means that no matter how much we try to educate our public on the harms of smoking, the tobacco companies will be able to fight the government on this front and win back their popularity.
If we stop subsidizing and helping local manufacturers, we have a much better control over the message that's being sent out to the public.
Moving on to the second point: how does this affect workers in the tobacco business?
So the real reason behind the subsidy in the status quo is a protectionist reason.
We want to keep the job places of the thousands of people employed in tobacco farms.
And we know that the competition with other asian countries that also grow tobacco will not allow local production to survive without the subsidy.
They will lose to china, they will lose to india.
But a subsidy should only be kept for things that we consider as vital necessities, things like wheat to grow bread.
We use subsidies, as a government, if we want to keep prices of certain basic products low enough, because we think that everyone should have access to them.
Obviously, cigarettes are far from being a a a a necessary product.
So, this subsidy is not legitimate.
As for manufacturers, we believe that some of them will still survive if their product is of a high enough quality.
They could, you know, sell it as boutique tobacco and raise the price for consumers a little bit, and they will be okay.
But, yes, many of them will lose their jobs and will have to find some other field where they might have a relative advantage.
This is how a market works.
Just as it makes no sense to spend government money subsidizing wagons and carriages after cars entered the market, even though many jobs depended on it back then.
Same goes for tobacco farmers.
So for all of these reasons, we beg you to propose.