I think it's important to establish something right off the bat.
This debate has not been defined to be from the personal perspective of the pope or of the catholic church.
Therefore we need to look at the question whether it would be preferable to live in a world in which the celibacy vow would be abandoned or not.
We think that the answer is no and this is not because like it's good that priests remain celibate, but simply because the organization of the catholic church has very limited political capital for core changes in their tenants of their faith and we believe that there are other changes that are far more pressing and important.
Before we go to explaining this let's answer the points that were brought up by the previous speaker.
So first they talk about how this gets young men not to turn to to priesthood and brings the situation where there are incompetent priests.
So the first answer to this would be that like the fact that we're losing some of the most competent potential priests doesn't mean that we are stuck with completely incompetent morons right?
So it's unclear to us why specifically a priest is like a title that requires special merit?
Like only the best and the finest for for things to work.
Why do all of the good things that james mentions cannot happen even if we have our second or third priority priests?
I don't understand this.
With a bit of experience we are quite confident that things will turn out okay even if you didn't get your first pick.
Second answer is like even if you don't accept this, even if you think that this will end up badly for the catholic church, we do not run this debate from the perspective of what's good for catholicism.
Therefore we just don't care so much.
We say okay so in the worst case there are going to be a like a few less competent people in church but then the market gains more competent people in other roles that will have a positive impact on on other people outside the catholic community.
Like we that sounds perfectly fine to us.
The second thing that they say is that this is a like a rule that meant for for like meant to be broken.
That it's going to be hard for these for young people to understand the long term consequences and it's likely that they will break their vows and that's bad because their talents get wasted and this will cause people to live to leave the community.
Here again, we simply aren't too concerned about people turning away from the church.
In fact, we think that there's a lot of advantages to that to to people leaving the the catholic church both personally to these people and to society as a whole but we're not getting into this.
Like eventually we're just going to say that had the strength and stability of the catholic community really been a concern, we are not entirely sure that most people will respond with patience and understanding to such a drastic change in their long standing tradition.
We think that like if that's what james cares about then we would say that it's very likely that people will leave the church and it's going to be less stable after the vow of celibacy is abandoned.
Finally to the constructive points.
So like any other organized religion catholicism is based on symbolic customs and traditions.
This is like ninety percent of their appeal.
That's what helps them preserve their like hold of the public.
That doesn't mean that religions cannot evolve with time and the traditions cannot change, but this does mean that there's a limit to how much could be changed within a certain period of time.
Therefore, abandoning the vow of celibacy is mutually exclusive with other potential changes that are currently discussed within catholic circuits like ordinating women priestess, like supporting the the use of contraception, like embracing LGBT's, like supporting adoption, like given the limited political capital, we have to prioritize these changes and in our opinion, the issue of celibacy isn't ranked as high on the list.
Even that the harms that we've heard from the previous speaker can't really seriously be compared to the harms that that result from opposing contraception for instance and for this reason we say that for now, we need not touch the vow of celibacy.
So please oppose the motion