There are plenty of problems on social media, but this doesn't automatically mean that we should abandon it.
Just like the fact that there are plenty of car accidents, it doesn't mean that we should abolish driving.
The question has to be addressed comparatively, so that we can understand whether there are more disadvantages or more advantages, and we plan to show that the latter outweighs the former.
First of all, let's have a closer look at the disadvantages that we've heard about from the previous speaker.
So, at first he tells us that because people only like present the highlights of their lives on social media, this makes people like make comparisons and feel less good about themselves.
We don't really think that this is the case.
The fact is that most people enjoy spending time on social media, otherwise they simply wouldn't have.
Besides, like if you go to the movies, you can see beautiful actors and actresses and an edited and improved version of reality, if you will.
People still are attracted to to like movie theaters and they still enjoy the movies, this is hardly a reason to abolish cinema.
Afterwards, we hear about the loss of privacy.
And this is true, we're not going to deny that there's like a dimension of privacy that gets lost because of social media.
But just how damaging is this?
So right, people don't bother reading all the small prints in the contract, but that's because they choose not to.
Like people know that that facebook is using their information for advertising purposes, this is common knowledge.
They simply don't care too much.
I don't understand what's the harm in in me getting more targeted advertising from now on, like that's suited for my needs.
And then we're being told that this grants more power to totalitarian regimes, and that is ridiculous, because it's the exact, the exact opposite.
James himself tells us that it's these countries that usually try to ban facebook and twitter.
And the reason is that they are afraid of it, because facebook is the reason that mubarak was toppled in egypt, for for instance.
So more on this shortly.
Lastly, they tell us that this is how isis are able to recruit young people in the west.
And like right, there were examples of this.
But this doesn't mean that without social media this phenomenon is going to stop, because sadly there are online secret forums and there are insightful preachers in friday prayers, and if we ban twitter and facebook, then it's likely that these organizations will only enhance their activities in these alternative channels.
And again, also that's it's basically like saying that because terrorists sometimes manage to blow up airplanes, we must stop with airline travel.
No.
This just means that we need to heighten security, and that's also what facebook and twitter do.
It doesn't really it's not really that simple today for isis to recruit support on facebook or twitter, because these companies monitor everything and immediately take down what they deem dangerous in any way.
Same goes to the alt-right example.
Now to some of the bigger advantages that you don't hear about from the previous speaker.
Number one, this grants power to the public against abusive regimes, we've already started to touch upon that.
The social media are a perfect tool to take, like you know, dispersed and politically weak individuals and turn them into a powerful movement.
This is the dictators' worst nightmare, and you know, we don't really like dictators that much.
Number two.
Not just dictatorships, social media has changed politics everywhere, and we think that for the good.
This allows the people like a direct pipeline to communicate with leaders, that beforehand were very disconnected from them.
This enhances the accountability of politicians, this enhances the citizens' involvement in politics, that's a beautiful thing.
Number three, expression.
Social media gives a stage to anyone to pass on their message across to a lot of other people.
This is meaningful, especially to people that have felt invisible before.
Number four, this helps people to keep track and keep in touch with distant friends or relatives that otherwise they just couldn't have done.
That's also a wonderful thing.
So for all of these reasons, we we think that the good far outweighs the bad.
Oppose the motion.