Let's see what we get from our opponent and answer his points one by one.
So first, will talks about how healthcare costs a lot of money for the federal government, and I really don't understand this point.
Because obviously it's costly.
Aren't security expenditures costly?
The question obviously isn't how much it costs, but how important or valuable we believe that it is, or how much we believe that it's the state's duty.
Because if we believe that allowing citizens to live with dignity without being afraid constantly for their health is an obligation that the states the state has towards its its citizens, just as much as we believe that it's the states obligation to ensure its citizens' security from its enemies, then we're going to find the money for it.
Or else the government just doesn't even justify its very existence.
Then they talk about how it's expensive for businesses that need to pay for the healthcare costs of its employees, and the problem with this argument is that health the health insurance that the workplace offers comes at the expense of the salary not in addition to it.
Because if we hadn't asked employers to to pay for it, then it wouldn't matter much because it would be simply collected directly from employees, they had to go and ask for a raise in salary in order to fund it, and so employers would still end up paying for it.
Additionally we think that the employer both profits from the health of its of his employees and sometimes even is responsible for the health problems that that they have, and so we think there's a lot of logic in letting him participate in this cost.
Next they talk about how they don't want to cover pre-existing conditions, because it's people that that gain more than they provide.
And we wonder what's the difference between this and poor people that are entitled entitled to get benefits from the state, or unemployed people that get like budget from the unemployment budget from the state?
Or does side government also wish to completely nullify the redistributive logic of the tax system?
Indeed we believe that healthcare is essentially an another system of redistribution, and as such it should concern itself with what is the government's obligations towards its citizens first, and not with how efficient this is.
Health care isn't meant to make the country richer.
It's supposed to cost money and there's no sense in saying that those who need it most - the ones with preexisting conditions - wouldn't be entitled to receive it.
Lastly they argue that healthcare is a bad idea in general because people end up spending more money, in expectancy terms, than what they end up receiving.
But this so called problem like holds also to any type of insurance, right?
Because these are always profit seeking companies and they want to make their fortunes and they know how to price their policies in a way that won't be fair.
Like it's not a fair policy where people pay exactly how much they're expected to to receive later.
People usually pay a lot more than that.
And the fact is that most people are willing to live with this because people are risk averse and very very few people really operate according to pure calculations of expected utility.
So to sum it all up: healthcare is and should be about making sure that everyone is at is at least basically covered in case something bad should happen and that people's lives aren't ruined by mere bad luck.
It's not about efficiency or saving money for the government.
We're proud to oppose.