Side government is highly hypocritical if they allow for fishing, hunting of the game, and the meat industry in general but they oppose specifically whaling.
Tim says that the criteria that grants creatures rights is the ability to feel pain or pleasure.
Note that by doing this he essentially says that all type of all types of like usage that people do on animals for their own sake is wrong because it is essentially a violation of rights.
But then he moves on to specifically talk about the fishing industry as something that is worthy of protection.
We think that is inconsistent with his own logic because it has been proven that fish can also feel pain therefore it is unclear why they do not deserve protection well where as whales do deserve it in the opinion of the government.
Then he goes on to say that whales are specifically intelligent beings.
We say that pigs are also highly intelligence intelligent and we say that even monkeys that are perhaps at the highest intelligent of all animals are being hunted and used for experiments.
No matter how intelligent whales are they are clearly nowhere near the level of intelligence that people enjoy from.
So on the constructive, we're going to tell you first what's our criteria for who deserves rights.
Secondly, why we think that that is a very condescending proposition.
So first point.
Who deserves rights?
We say that the criteria for granting rights is different.
It is only at the point at which a creature is able of able of being sentiment in the sense of forming interests for the long run and not just living purely based on instincts that we tend to give that creature rights and protection.
The reason this also includes infants is because they have the potential to become such a creature.
The reason that this also applies to mentally disabled people is because they have relatives that do have interests and eh in their well being and anyway we say that every criteria, every strict criteria that we want to set on who deserves rights is going to be by definition somewhat random and there are going to be cases in which it's going to be over or under inclusive.
You could always think of exceptional examples that are going to challenge the criteria but we still need some type of strict criteria and therefore we have to strive for the criteria that is closest to what we're looking for.
The closest thing that we can think of is saying that all humans deserve rights and protection.
Next argument, why we think that this is a condescending proposition.
So, this notion basically exemplifies how easy it is to resist something as long as you are not dependent on it but for countries like iceland and and norway and japan this isn't just a nasty habit but something that has been a pillar of their industry for centuries.
We do not hear any word about this coming from the prime minister.
In fact, to this very day, there are entire communities in which people's livelihoods are based on whaling and therefore government's own analysis on how we should respect the income of people falls to our side of the debate.
So on the bottom line, we think that imposing this ban isn't is nothing but like a form of imperialistic oppression and a forceful enforcement of completely random and arbitrary values.
Last thing that we want to say here is that any type of arguments like we hear coming from side government on how whaling leads to the depletion of the population of whales is at best an argument in favor of controlled whaling and not an argument on banning whaling altogether.
By the way, unlike what government tell you, we say that whales as a mega predator can be seen as a destructive disruptive animal to the ecosystems because they deplete the population of fish and therefore like allowing the whale population to just grow in an uncontrolled manner means many times an ecological disaster and a lot of harm to human being's communities that are based on fishing as means for survival.
For all of these reasons, we beg you to oppose.