I'm going to start by refuting the points of the previous speaker and then I'll add another argument, which is the implications that this proposition is going to have on the jewish community and the huge backlash that this is going to definitely cause.
So, side government tell us that the problem with male circumcision is that it's being imposed on infants and it's irreversible.
They talk about body autonomy and they say that people should be able to choose what to do with their bodies because they are the ones that will have to live with this decision, and they know best how it affects them, and parents don't have a right to choose.
We would like to challenge this assumption and ask: well, what about vaccinations, for instance?
Should we also wait for eighteen?
And, in general, we think that there are a lot of things also, beside bodily autonomy, but there are a lot of things that parents get to decide over you which will have a huge impact on your life, and you don't have a say in the matter.
What's your name, what sort of education you're going to get and so on, and as a part of this, they are also, in a sense, choosing for you which community you are born into and in some cases, cases this comes with circumcision.
Now, we'd like to mention that very few people end up regretting the fact that they've been circumcised, even if they choose to opt out of their religions.
The fact that people keep doing this from generation to generation, and most people choose to also circumcise their sons as well, just shows how most people don't don't end up suffering from that decision, even if it was forced upon them.
So and then they say that like it forces people to bear the mark of their religion that they might opt out of.
Well, it's not really really relevant today when like well over fifty percent of the population are being circumcised anyway, whether by choice or not.
Then we hear that it's just genital mutilation and that it's arbitrary to oppose it in the in the case of female mutilation and not of male circumcision.
So, I'm not going to actually defend the logic behind circumcision.
Of course, this is a random custom that has become a tradition.
But it is very different from female mutilation simply because in that case, it is about a harm that goes way beyond aesthetics.
In the cases of female mutilation, the like purpose of this ritual is to deny women the ability to enjoy intercourse.
This is just another historical way for the male hegemony to oppress women, whereas in in circumcision, we don't have that effect or any long-term damages that we can seriously speak of.
The fact is, as the previous speaker acknowledges, that many non-jewish men also choose to get circumcised now.
I don't think that the equivalent happens with with women as well, and this testifies to how there is no real long-term damage here.
So, finally, after we heard a lot of theoretical talk about like principles and autonomy, we think that it that it it's worth asking how are the implications of this proposition are going to actually look like in reality.
It's important to understand that this custom is one of the core tenants of judaism.
It symbolizes for us the pact that abraham has made with god, and such a ban will undoubtedly be seen as a declaration of war, an antisemitic act from the state against the jewish community.
And we should mention this is a community that, given its history, is understandably sensitive to attacks against it.
So, we think that what inevitably is going to happen as a result is a backlash effect, where rabbis will preach to their communities not to listen to the laws of the state.
People will become more extreme in their religious zealous, and not only is that never a good thing for the state or for society, this will only bring to more young ones in these communities enjoying far less of their rights and their autonomies, and that's exactly what side government set out to prevent to begin with.
Living in a successful multicultural society means that we have to know what fights we want to pick and where we need to choose to stay out and compromise.
Please oppose.