We should adopt a zero tolerance policy in schools.
What this means is that certain violations of school laws, that are considered especially important, things like not raising your hands on another fellow student, not inserting to the school premises weapons or drugs, and, you know, other things in equal magnitude, will be met with zero tolerance, and an immediate punishment.
For clarity's sake, let's make it detention the first time around, suspension the second time around, then expulsion third time.
No exceptions.
Think about it as a sort of mandatory minimum, in school.
Yes, this means that there might be certain mistakes, that can happen with unfortunate outcomes, but this is also the best way to avoid disasters.
So, we believe that it's worth it.
First argument, why is this even justified?
So, the other side might go and argue that principally, we do not have a right to punish someone, without allowing them the opportunity to defend and explain themselves.
What we need to understand, though, is that the school is not a democratic system anyway, and as such, it is not obligated to things such as, you know, right to a fair trial, or due process.
The school has a clear hierarchy.
The students need to do what their teacher tells them, and that's that.
It's not a discussion.
In addition, it's not that we're sending off children to prison.
So, in the worst case, we are expelling children, and then they can go and look for another school.
This is completely within our rights, just as it is within our rights if, like, if I am a boss of a private company, I can fire an employee for not meeting my expectations.
Okay so, we see that we are allowed to do this.
Now, let's let's go to the second argument, and ask should we do this?
So, why isn't it enough to, for example, set clear laws, and then punish each violation of those laws, on a case by case basis?
Why do we need a blanket policy here?
First reason is that, sense we are talking about children and teenagers, that, by definition, are often looking to check that, you know, the limits of the authority, and what exactly they really can or cannot do, then, the concept of, you know, normal deterrence, that is based on people's natural inclination to follow rules, isn't able to function well enough.
The fact that something is frowned upon will work well enough as a deterrent in many cases, but not when it comes to children.
So, if we truly want to avoid these violations, these specific violations, as much as possible, and we really want to create true deterrence, we don't really have another option, but to be firm, and to show no weak spots.
Secondly, because we believe that on balance, we get less harms this way.
So, again, it's true that it means that sometimes students might get punished without wrongdoing, but this is why we are giving them a few chances, right?
There's an a, sort of, three strikes you're out mechanism.
So, if you manage to break the laws three times without realizing, that is already really impressive.
We don't really think that this can happen.
Besides, even in the worst case, you are merely being expelled from school.
It's unpleasant for sure, but not the worst thing that can happen.
But if we don't do this, and we show softness, there will be the problematic children that will interpret this as weakness, and will decide to be brave, and to test their limits.
And this might already leads to a real disaster.
So for these reasons, please propose.