In a world that's becoming more and more global, in which countries stop being the most important player when it comes to trade, and there's a transition to continental trade blocks, or huge economic areas, like the european union, and the african union, and the south american union, a continent that will not follow this trend, will find itself lagging behind.
Asean still has a long way to go, but the solution to its problems must be seeking to strengthen it, rather than disbanding it.
We hear two things coming from side government.
First is that asean has been inefficient.
Why?
Because it's hard to reach a consensus, because there's a lot of differences between the member countries in terms of culture, and language, and religion, and different priorities, etcetera.
We say two things to that.
A, all of this is also true in other unions.
For instance, in the european union.
There are different countries with different histories, different cultures, different languages, and these are very much countries that were having conflicts for centuries, and still we have managed to reach a very successful union.
So we say that this cannot be an inherent reason to why asean could never ever work.
The second answer is that even if it's inefficient today, this doesn't mean that it's not going to be way worse, like economically, to disband it.
We say that it's enough to look at at what happened in britain with the brexit as an example.
We say that even if there were some truths to the arguments about how the EU isn't working well for britain, we saw that the that the moment that they decided to pull out, then the economy has suffered an even greater blow.
We say that disbandment creates huge uncertainty that harms investments, it harms the stock market, and that's why even if asean is stagnating, we must things think of ways to strengthen and improve it, before we turn to disbandment.
And the second argument made by daniel, is that asean excludes other options, such as multilateral or direct negotiations.
And he and he seems to think that these are better because they are smaller deals in scope, they're faster to agree upon and negotiate like better terms.
Well, two answers here as well.
First, we didn't really hear why this excludes like additional options.
Like why couldn't we have individual agreements, on top of the asean agreements, between countries, in cases where there's some local specific matter that concerns only two countries.
B, of course it's easier, but like you know, the bigger the agreement is the more complicated it is, but it also the more influential.
We say that all in all, even if it takes longer and requires more sweat in like to to sign the agreement, this still saves a lot of transaction costs, because we are talking about one big like one big agreement, instead of every country having to go through and engage in ten individual agreements.
Moving on to our constructive arguments.
We say that asean is also a protector of the regional stability.
We mustn't forget that promoting the economy is not the only goal of this union.
Much like the european union, asean is also meant to strengthen the cultural ties, that as side government rightfully mentions, are very different, countries with different cultures.
So this is meant to bring to bring those countries closer together, and create a unity of interest that will make it that much harder to go to war.
And we say that even if, in financial terms, it's hard to see the fruits of asean, then clearly when it comes to peace and stability, it is a success.
So for all of these reasons, we call you to oppose this motion.