We should subsidize embryonic stem cell research.
Three arguments in this speech: first on whether it's moral to be experimenting on embryonic cells, second point about a black market and a third point about why is this subsidy so crucially needed and what is the state's role in this.
So first point, is it moral to be experimenting on embryonic cells?
So a lot of the opposers to this research oppose it for similar reasons as they would oppose abortions.
To them the embryos are living creatures that deserve protection.
But here is the fact that is crucial in this regard: unlike abortions, the alternative to these specific embryos that are used in this research isn't a normal pregnancy or normal life, this research uses embryos in the very early stages of development that were left over from in-vitro fertilization.
The alternative for these embryos is to just be thrown away, or frozen indefinitely somewhere.
And so if you are a pro choicer you would probably see no real in in, no real injustice here anyway.
But even if like even for pro lifers, I believe that this fact would change many people's opinion.
Because no active quote unquote killing takes place here.
The embryo isn't worse off this way.
This is a net good.
Secondly, black market.
So naturally we don't really mean a black market literally here.
Very doubtful that there are going to make experiments on embryonic stem cells in a dark back alley somewhere.
What we do mean to say is that as soon as the government will be the main like actor that funds this research, then it can supervise and regulate and so as to make sure that indeed no foul play is being made here.
No woman is being pushed to terminate a natural pregnancy solely for the purpose of conducting research.
Once there is no public subsidy then private charities enter the picture, and they already have like one clear agenda here, which is to investigate and research as many embryonic stem cells as possible, and unlike the government they don't care as much about the embryos in any way.
And I don't think that's necessarily bad but this does mean that paradoxically, whoever is worried about like not conducting abortions for sake of this research, should support public funding for it more than more than anyone else.
So lastly, why is this subsidy needed, and why is it the the job of the government?
Well, firstly because embryonic stem cell research is considered one of the fields with the highest potential to promote our knowledge in in everything that has to do with finding medicine and cures for pressing matters like cancer or or alzheimer's and other very serious diseases.
And this is obviously something that is very much a public interest.
It's just like research that goes into climate change, which we obviously fund and give subsidies to all the time.
And the second reason is that it's it will be incredibly hard to raise enough money for this research to be successful without help from the government, simply because this is considered it's considered such a controversial issue, and many donors would prefer to invest their money in like universal purposes that will grant them like everybody's favor.
Like, I don't know, supporting orphans or saving extinct panda bears or something.
So we really need the government to step in in this case.
For all of these reasons please propose.