The main clash in this debate, as we see it, focuses on the question what can be considered justified?
Eventually, most, if not all, of the case of side government rests on the benefits of this bombing, in hindsight, and this requires a type of consequentialist approach to moral philosophy: if this action has led to the end of the war and eventually saved more lives than it would have been that like then more lives than would have been taken otherwise, then it is justified.
We wish to challenge the very premise of this approach.
We could argue on whether or not it's true that the japanese wouldn't have surrendered otherwise but in a more fundamental level, we want to argue that at the point in time at which this decision was made to to use the a-bomb, without having the benefit of hindsight, hell, they barely even had any idea as to the immediate consequences, not to mention the long-term consequences, of this weapon, at that point, the decision to target innocent civilians with deadly force of such magnitude can never be justified, no matter what the final outcomes of this thing are going to be.
Pay attention that we are relenting the consequentialist approach that only is interested in the aftermath and we're adopting a different view, one that is more concerned with the decision itself and says that certain things can just never be justified, no matter what happens as a result from them, and throwing a nuclear bomb into the heart of a civilian population probably tops this list.
But how could we weigh and decide between these two conflicting approaches?
So, we would offer the next thought experiment.
Now, I'm really sorry upfront for the violent description, but I find it necessary.
Imagine that I'm walking down the street and in front of me, I see a a young mother walking with this with a little little baby.
For some reason, in a moment of passion, I decide to murder that baby.
So I snatch it from the hands of its mom and throw it to the middle of the road.
Now what happens is, without me being able to foresee it, it turns out that the car that just pass through had kim jong-un sitting in the back, the merciless dictator from from north korea.
And as a result from the baby being thrown to the middle of the road, the driver of the car quickly maneuvers away and instead of hitting the baby, hits a light post and kills kim jong-un that sits in the back.
The baby remains safely untouched.
As a result of kim's sudden death, a peaceful revolution takes place in north korea, where they establish a democracy that , you know, sets free millions of civilians from the yoke of the oppressive regime that they've been under for several decades.
Now let us ask: was I justified in throwing the baby to the middle of the road?
Clearly, the answer is absolutely not.
Some things are just forbidden, you can never do them.
And trying to murder an innocent baby is one of them, and it doesn't make any difference that the final outcome of of trying to murder the baby was has brought a lot of good.
So, what we say is simply that the decision to throw an atom bomb on japan, without really being able to tell that this is what's going to to lead to the end of the of the world war and to peace between japan and the united states, is one hundred percent analogous to this example and for this reason, we are very proud to oppose.