There is a good reason that only citizens of the united states get a right to elect a president and that we don't just open up the election to whoever wishes to cast a vote and voice an opinion all over the world.
That is something that we assume that side government agrees with and note that it is true, despite the fact that the question of who becomes president of the united states without a doubt affects many other people who are not american citizens.
In the exact same way, we say that allowing people from outside a party to affect who is going to become that party's leader harms the right of the actual constituents for a proper representation and, in addition, it is going to have the exact opposite effect from what government wishes to achieve.
Pay attention to what eitan says in his speech.
He starts by explaining that the situation in the country today is worse than it has ever been in terms of the partisan rift between democrats and republicans.
And we agree.
He points to radical candidates but we would emphasize that the popularity of such candidates only comes to teach us that the people themselves are way more divided than ever before.
Right afterwards he says that in his opinion, open primaries can help solve that situation, but the huge problem in his analysis is that he simply assumes that when people vote for a candidate of the other party, you're going to vote to whoever whoever represents the ideological position that's closest to their own and the people are going to simply use that vote to screw over the other side.
But in a situation where democrats and republicans hate each other's guts to the extent that to many democrats there is no such thing as a tolerable republican, and to many republicans there is no such thing as a democrat that we could live with.
We say that the most probable thing that's going to happen is that I would like to use my vote in order to harm the other party and the best way for me to do that is to to give my vote to the worst possible candidate that I believe has the least chances of winning in the general election.
Note that at this point, all of the analysis that comes from eitan on the incentives of people to elect the most moderate candidate completely reverse and who the people that gained the most out of it is the most radical, most bizarre candidates that no one ever dared imagine that they were relevant before.
Now, they are they are starting to be a part of the game.
Note also that even if we wanted to believe that people are nice, people are not going to use this opportunity to try and cheat, we have no way of knowing that the other side isn't going to do exactly that and therefore, the most rational thing for each side to do is precisely to try and screw over the other side so at least he won't get screwed twice.
So, yes, in fact we have here a sort of a prisoner's dilemma that results in in in like, outcomes that are bad for everyone.
So, we have both harmed the right of the party constituents to elect a candidate and a leader for their party that truly represents their values and we have also entered the game all of the very worst of candidates in complete opposition to what government actually wants to achieve.
If the united states' politics is in bad shape today, we can only imagine what new lows this proposition is going to bring.
Oppose this horrible motion.