We should abolish personality tests.
With the number of people that are searching for a job far outweighing the number of vacancies, the choice that employers have to make gets more and more difficult because they have a lot more options to choose from, and therefore many of them turn to things such as personality tests, that can use as a as a supportive tool in deciding, that is allegedly objective, and then they remove this responsibility from their shoulders.
We see that the more that these tests become popular in the business sector, and the more this is becoming a common practice, this is starting to become the the like principled basis for the decisions of employers.
Meaning that these tests are becoming, with time, mutually exclusive with more old fashioned techniques, like, you know, good old job interviews or recommendations, and we think that this is unfortunate, because it creates two sorts of problems.
First first sort of problem is, you know, practical problems.
We simply are worried that we that this is a very bad tool in order to give, you know, a precise prediction of who might be qualified or who might actually do a good job.
Second problems is our ethical problems.
Regardless of the way of how, like, precise this tool is, we say that there are still several ethical problems that are being created as soon as we start rating people according to objective criteria.
Let's start with the practical problems.
So firstly, we say that these are very vague and unquantifiable tests.
The questions are often very not clear-cut, and the options that you have to choose from are a very very raw, you know, estimation and very imprecise answer to the actual way in which the the participant actually behaves.
It's it's almost impossible to infer from this any concrete conclusion about the participant.
Secondly, we say that participants try to impress.
The effectivity of these tests is dependent on the assumption that the answers that the participants will provide to the questions are sincere and actually you know exemplify their true character.
But we have no guarantee that this assumption is actually taking place, and it's actually been proven in dozens of researches, that there is a systematical bias that results from the fact that participants tried to adjust themselves and the answers that they give to what they expect that the tester, or the employer in this case, will want to hear.
Thirdly, we say that we just we can argue that there is no such thing as a, you know, rock solid character.
We say that my personality is an ever changing sequence that is affected from countless factors that are not determined.
It changes according to my mood and according to the weather, and every time that I answer these tests, I will have completely other like different results.
Now it's true that in basically every test that we do this we might have a certain difference in in the way that we perform, but in this case we are talking about such radical changes and so such a radical difference, that the answer is simply random and not indicative of anything.
Bottom line, we say that these tests simply cannot be a good metric to measure or to predict how good a certain employee is going to be for the job that he's going to get, and leaning on it too much creates more harm than benefit.
But let's continue to the ethical problems.
Firstly, inherent bias.
So like any other form of standardized tests, many times, and even in an unintentional way, like not intended by the people that wrote these tests, these tests come out very discriminative towards certain groups in the population, that for them it would be much much harder to score high.
For instance, if I grew up in an environment that's less educated and I came from a background that's less privileged, then it's possible that I will always choose the options that make it look as if I am a rude person, just because this is the language to which I'm used to.
Secondly we say that this is a very cold procedure that rates people and assigns a number to each person.
There is no room to talk about it, there's no room for appeals, the answer is final.
This is degrading and it doesn't acknowledge the humanity of the person that's doing the test.
For all of these reasons, we are very proud to abolish personality tests.