The government has made many arguments.
I'm going to try and deal with the more important ones because we don't have time to answer everything.
Let's start with the point about overproduction: we agree that subsidies might lead to overproduction.
The thing is that the alternative isn't equilibrium between supply and demand, but rather underproduction.
Let's explain why this is true and why this is worse: farming is an expensive thing.
You have to own like, wide areas, you have to employ a lot of employees, you have to own equipment and machinery that are very expensive, you have to protect yourself from bad weather and so on and so forth.
All of this means that no matter how high the demand for your product is, there is a certain set price that you cannot go under if you want to make a profit and continue on manufacturing.
This means that the very basic things like bread, like dairy, like fruits and vegetables are supposed to be rather costly.
Think for a minute about laptops or iphones where there is basically no limits to the amount of demand that these products have, but still, because we are talking about obviously something that is quite expensive to manufacture, they are quite expensive and clearly many people cannot afford to buy them.
So that's exactly where the government steps in and says okay, I can live with people not having laptops, but I cannot allow my citizens to starve for bread, therefore, I will grant a subsidy that aims to lower the prices and to make these products more accessible to the entire public.
This is why we subsidize, specifically, agriculture and, of course, if side government is worried about doctors, then we would mention that we also subsidize pharmaceuticals in hospitals, so no worries here.
This means that without the government intervening, we have a situation of a demand surplus or an underproduction because as james rightfully explains, there will be far fewer dairy farmers that will manufacture far fewer milk and at higher prices, but the same amount of people that still wish to buy milk.
So, necessarily, there will be people that still want this product but cannot afford it.
Why do we prefer a situation of overproduction to this situation?
Well, firstly, because at least this way, we don't have people that are being left hungry.
But moreover, we say that with overproduction, we have the tools to grow more efficient over time.
If the farmer sees that a lot goes to waste, he can plan out his next cycle to produce a little less.
If the government sees that a lot of this produce is being thrown away, it can match the amount of subsidies accordingly.
But with underproduction, there's simply nothing left to do because we simply cannot sell at a price that is lower than the cost of production.
So, pay attention that this point also takes care of james' point about transferring money from the poor to the rich.
We think that that is baloney because poor people pay far less taxes so this is money that's mainly being taken from people that are well-off and is being used in order to allow everyone to buy vital necessities, so obviously, we are helping the less fortunate here.
The second argument I'll make is about trade and and like harming other farmers.
This is, again, a point that we can simply accept in its full, but the thing is that the damage here is completely symmetrical under both sides of the house.
Free trade also harms a lot of local farmers because their because, like, agricultural goods are entering the country from other agricultural countries, specifically places like asia, where it's much easier and and cheaper to produce like, agricultural goods because you barely have to pay the workers there anything.
This renders the competition nearly impossible for many local farmers.
This is exactly why so many people in the united states today turn against globalization and against free trade.
So, eventually, in a competition, like any other competition, someone is bound to lose.
If anything, subsidies help our farmers survive so it is unclear to us if it's either our farmers or foreign farmers, why it is not okay to prioritize our farmers.
We think that the opposite is true.
So, all things considered, please oppose.