National sentiment has definitely brought a lot of bad but also a lot of good.
We think that the only way to really weigh between the two things is to imagine a world without nationalism and ask whether on the comparative we would have gotten a better world.
We will show in this speech that the current world in which many people give priority to the national element of their identity is preferable to the alternatives.
We don't we do not think that we have gotten such a decent account of the effects of nationalism from side government.
They chose to focus on the negative things alone and didn't bother to offer any alternatives.
Let's refute what they did say.
So they start by saying that nationalism is divisive and it creates competition and hatred between nations but we say that any other part of our identity that we would have chosen to prioritize would have the exact same effect.
Identity is something that's compiled of things that make me special special when when comparing to others.
This is by definition what identity means, therefore it is is it is divisive by nature.
So even if I would have chosen for instance to prioritize my religion or my ethnicity or my ideology it wouldn't have mattered.
Said next they talk about how nationalism leads to conflicts like the world war one example.
So we don't think that it would be fair to say that all of these wars were a direct result of nationalism because reality is much more complex.
There are there's a variety of different reasons and factors that lead to the outbreak of war such as financial considerations, and strategic, and military or political considerations, and it's quite presumptuous to reduce it all to nationalism.
Next they say that rebellions that were caused by nationalism has has led to a lot of death.
Well yeah but aren't we forgetting something?
What about the freedom and independence that would never have would have happened without national rebellions like for instance the american revolution?
It seems that side government has completely forgot that without nationalistic sentiment we would not have received the current like global order of nation states that has made the global system the most stable that it's ever been.
Then they say that that like nationality is a an exclusive criterion that you cannot opt out or in of and that it leads to suspicion of whoever isn't part of your nation.
You know with the jewish example and we think that this is a quite a strong argument.
However, we do not see any alternatives that will lead to a better outcome.
They talk about how there's no overlap between countries and and nations and how this creates minorities that suffer from discrimination because of nationalism and again we think that this would have been true to any alternative that is plausible.
So what we come up and say is that basically people have an innate need to create groups of collective identification and the only way to do so in large numbers is to gather people around a a certain identical element.
Had it not had it not been nationality it would have been religion or ethnicity or ideology.
We say that people from different nations and different like people do cooperate more and more today and all of this violence that can result from nationalism isn't necessary.
It's not it doesn't logically follow from nationalism necessarily.
As for religion and ethnicity these are things that suffer from the exact same problems of exclusivity of lack of of overlap with with countries and they've also contributed to numerous deaths and misery and conflicts.
Ideology has different problems.
It's usually far less forgiving and far less patient towards anyone that doesn't share it.
Communism would be a pretty good example of that.
So we say but it's true that nationalism isn't perfect but given that it answers a very basic human need, and in light of the other alternatives identity that's based on nationality allows for the maximum amount of openness and receiving whoever is different from you and therefore we call you to oppose.