We should adopt teacher tenure reform.
I think that both sides of this debate can easily agree that good teachers, meaning professional and caring teachers that do their best so that their pupils will succeed, are a good thing.
So, the team that's able to show that there will be more of such teachers in its side of the house will win this debate.
First argument: tenure creates an agent problem.
And agent problem is a situation in which the outcomes of your actions are not felt by you but by someone else, and this endorses you to act in a way that's best for you but not necessarily good for whoever is affected by your actions.
Teaching is a very hard profession.
It's very easy to get exhausted and weary over time.
You have to wake up every morning and face a group of children that the last thing that they want to do on earth is sit and listen to what you came to teach them, no matter how much time and thought you put into how you mean to pass this lesson.
You have to also use sanctions: you need to shout sometimes or take kids out of the classroom.
You have to explain the same things over and over and over again for years on end.
All of these things can easily make even the most devoted person that really came in with a sense of purpose lose his whose motivation somewhere along the way and succumb to a mediocre routine in the better-case scenario or even become really an embittered and mean person in the worst case.
At this point, an extra incentive is required in order to maintain high quality teaching and preserve teachers that care about the kids' success.
The clearest form of incentive is obviously knowing that if you don't do a good job, you'll be replaced.
This way you're always required to bring your a game and the class profits.
What happens as soon as tenure is introduced is that this incentive disappears, and in its stead comes a certainty that no matter what you what you'll do and how you perform, you won't be replaced.
This assurance creates an opposite incentive.
The most rational thing you can do now is the bare minimum.
This way you are able to gain both an income and leisure.
That's a classic agent problem.
We think that especially in difficult professions, like teaching, it's likely to result in very bad employees, really bad teachers.
Second argument: the second argument is about abusive teachers.
We say that teachers have a lot of power.
They get to spend many hours every day in the classroom with kids that are often powerless to resist them in any way.
Sadly, this type of power can get people to behave cruelly and use this power to help themselves feel bigger by belittling others.
Opposition will try to tell you that really abusive teachers are going to be let go with or without tenure, and that's true, but we don't have to talk about the most extreme cases.
It's enough to talk about teachers that use demeaning language, that comment on pupils' appearance or gender or about their ability that they show in the classroom.
It's enough to talk about teachers that scream all the time for no good reason and scare the children.
Almost all of us can think of at least one example of such a teacher.
As soon as a teacher like this gets tenure, our ability to do something about it is massively undercut.
We also say that good teachers are likely to stay in the system with or without tenure because they get good feedbacks and because there's their pupils get good grades, and there'll be no good reason for the school to let them go.
It is in the school's interest to preserve them.
It is therefore specifically the bad type of teachers that profit from tenure because they are the ones that would have been let go without it.
So for all of these reasons, we are proud to propose this motion.