The motion clearly states that mandatory retirement brings more good than harm.
Now, we've heard a lot from daniel about the good things that might be involved with mandatory retirements.
But surprisingly, we have heard nothing as to the bad sides that come with it.
This makes it impossible to actually decide whether this is something that brings more good than harm.
So, we are going to talk to you a little bit about the negative stuff that comes with mandatory retirement, and then we're going to compare the two, so that we could reach the necessary conclusion, and that is that the bad outweighs the good.
But before that, a quick rebuttal for daniel.
Daniel says basically two things.
First, that older employees are like are less able as compared to younger employees, in terms of physical ability and sometimes cognitive ability, and that they don't willingly retire, because they don't want to admit to being weaker, and that it's not always legal to fire them.
So we think that these specific cases that that daniel mentions are very very limited.
Most people do anxiously wait to the day that they could retire, and they could enjoy their pension funds, and spend time with their families, and read, and travel, and therefore they will willingly retire.
In fact that the very people that insist on keeping like on keeping working, and are probably doing this from a place of necessity, because they desperately need this income, and for whatever reason they feel that they cannot sustain themselves solely on pension funds.
These are the people that side proposition wishes to focus the discussion about and force them to retire.
Let's remember this when we when we move to our constructive arguments.
Secondly, they talk to us about younger employees that are that are finding it difficult to find job places.
So and of course they talk about how important employment is to the younger folk.
So of course that with the last part we agree, we simply don't think that the problem with young employment stems really from the fact that eh older employees don't retire.
Because like also because we say that most of them do retire, but also because the job market is constantly changing.
Most of the most most of the more desired jobs today are ones that are only accessible to the younger generation, in the fields of high tech, and computer engineering and so on, and it seems that this trend that the trend is like of of these jobs only becoming more and more in demand in the upcoming years, so there is no concern that senior citizens will be hogging these vacancies.
But moving on to the constructive.
Even if we still think that, in the margins, there is still a little bit of inefficiency that stems from older employees that don't retire, what are the negative effects of forcing them to retire.
A, we believe that any such law, by definition, needs to be uniform.
It needs to apply to everyone equally, meaning there has to be some set age in which you are forced to retire, while in reality obviously not everyone are equal in terms of their ability and their productivity.
For many this age, this set age, is going to be too low.
This means that capable, experienced people that can still contribute for a few good years, will be forced to retire, and that's simply inefficient.
For others, this age might be too high.
This means that people that are clearly less able to contribute, linger on until the retirement age, otherwise they will lose all sorts of benefits that they might be entitled to, and this isn't efficient as well.
But b, and more importantly, this is simply degrading.
There's a clear saying here, on behalf of the government, that validifies the opinion that as of a certain age, people can no longer be productive citizens to society, and this forces people that spend their entire lives to their jobs and know nothing else, to disconnect themselves from their life's work, and start looking for purpose elsewhere, and in such an old age this is not something that's always so easy or even possible to do.
Many older citizens that no longer are employed, suffer from depression because of exactly that.
So to conclude, on balance, even if it's true that like in the absence of mandatory retirement we lose a certain element of of efficiency, we think that this loss is very small and marginal, especially when compared to the huge harm of the humiliation feeling that we force upon our senior citizens, the very citizens to whom we owe the deepest gratitude.
Please oppose.