Affirmative action brings more good than harm.
Three arguments from side proposition today: firstly, on how affirmative action balances the inequality of opportunity in society.
Secondly, on how this is a tool of corrective justice and atonement for previous harm that we've inflicted upon disenfranchised groups.
And thirdly and lastly, how this helps create successful integration between different classes and mitigates the distrust that exists between different classes in the status quo.
Some definitions, because this can be quite a broad subject, so we'll focus today specifically on affirmative action in higher education, reserving quotas for like of scholarships for lower class students at the expense of others that might have better grades and so on.
So first argument: we say that specifically higher education is a key factor in forming one's future.
It provides opportunities for better career options and allows social mobility for lower class students, specifically.
The problem is that in order to get accepted to these institutions to begin with, is like it's much harder for these students because the acceptance is entirely contingent on previous grades that you have and these are obviously a derivative of how good your previous school was, how good were your teachers, how much free time could you afford to put into your studying, how much your parents could afford the time to help you with your homework or support you.
So for rich students it's quite easy to meet these criteria.
But for poor students it's a lot harder.
This creates an absurd situation that for the very students that could benefit the most out of higher education, these are the students that are often barred from accessing it.
Affirmative action allows us to balance this imbalanced situation.
And we know that it won't necessarily be easy for them once getting there.
They'll have to work hard and maybe they won't be at the top of their class.
But the comparative is that it's very unlikely that they would they would ever make it into a good college and they would most probably end up with low paying jobs and far less chances of moving up the social ladder.
Second argument: so, note how the first argument used utilitarian logic, in the sense that it says that that like the results of this move will be better.
In this argument we're even assuming less.
We saying that regardless of results, because society and specifically the state, had a hand in the conditions that these students came from, because it failed in providing equally good infrastructure and equally good lower education for these students, we say that we owe them that much.
That the state holds a stake in the life circumstances that led to their situation to begin with and for this it has a responsibility to try and make amends.
They have a right for favored treatment.
So for sure affirmative action means unequal treatment and it's not always fair, especially for whoever lost his seat in the university.
But we're willing to absorb this minor injustice in order to serve a higher justice for all of those who truly had a lot less of an opportunity in life.
So last argument, in the last argument we'll talk about how we have a problem of distrust between higher and lower classes in society today.
We think that a lot of it results from the fact that society tends to naturally separate between these classes.
And so stigmas start to develop.
We believe that the more students from different socioeconomic classes spend more time studying together shoulder to shoulder than the more we'll be able to overcome these negative stigmas and break them.
And this will lead to a better more unified society.
So for all of these reasons please propose.