I'm not going to challenge the notion that tibet deserves independence.
I'm no expert on the region, but it seems like their claim is strong enough.
But by the way, tibet is not unique in this sense.
According to side government's logic, we must also mention that taiwan deserves independence, like a full independence from china, but it's hardly only china.
The catalons deserve independence from spain, the basques and the corsicans deserve independence from france, the bavarians from germany, the lombardians and sicilians from italy.
Hell, almost in any country we can find a secessionist movement with a valid claim, because this is the nature of a nation state.
These are almost inherently over-inclusive, they almost always impose an artificial union on certain minority groups that are distinct from the majority population.
Even in the united states there are talks of separatism on the count of certain states in the south.
So, according to side government's logic, we need to support all of these efforts with economic sanctions and embargoes, and this will simply leave us without any trading partners.
It's the first burden on side government in this debate to justify and explain why they are cherry picking the tibetan struggle specifically over other justified efforts and struggles, why do they wish to raise its flags, what's so special about tibet that separates it from all the other geographic areas that I've mentioned, that also strive for independence.
The next point that I want to make is that this fight, by means of like economic tools, wouldn't do any good.
In fact, it will create the opposite.
It will be bad for tibet, it will be bad for us in the west.
So the previous speaker seems seems convinced that if we only apply a little bit of economic pressure and sanctions, then china will come to and improve its like treatment of tibetans, and we don't understand where he gets this confidence.
Maybe we can say that sanctions arguably have helped bring iran to the negotiating table and and close the nuclear deal, but like and also hear the like the how effective were the sanctions is a very questionable thing, but china is not iran.
It is much more powerful, it is much bigger and stronger.
So a better comparison would be russia.
Now, we need to ask ourselves, where this like did the sanctions applied on russia work in making it less aggressive in its foreign policy, or less prone to human rights abuses, and the answer here is a loud and clear no.
So there is no reason to think that the average tibetan is going to gain something out of these economic sanctions.
What we also must understand is that china is super sensitive to anything pertaining to its territorial disputes.
The one-china policy in which the people's republic of china demands that whoever has diplomatic ties with her, with it, will disconnect will like not engage in any type of diplomatic relations with taiwan, is a testament to just how sensitive they are.
The core tenant of the chinese foreign policy is that, like, we don't intervene in your internal affairs and you should respectively butt out of our domestic affairs as well.
China will not take kindly to what side government is proposing, not one bit, and it's not unreasonable to think that they will retaliate by making conditions that much harder for tibetans.
And then daniel tells us oh, we shouldn't worry, it's not a problem because china is economically dependent on the american purchasing power.
Well, the reality is that china is projected to surpass america as the world's leading economic superpower by two thousand eighteen, and this dependency in the US, if it exists, cuts both ways.
Because daniel seems to have forgotten that the united states is vastly indebted to chinese creditors, creditors that can, at any moment, claim their debt.
This means huge huge trouble for the US economy.
So, to wrap it up.
The fact that the struggle of tibetans is a righteous one doesn't mean that it will be justified to fight alongside them.
It has no justification if it only leads to worse outcomes.
Please oppose.