We look at this question from the perspective of real politic.
If there is anything that could be learned from observing the world around us, is that in order to be a superpower you need to act tough.
We debaters love talking about values and morality and all types of lovey dovey made up concepts and to think that love will triumph.
We desperately need a wake up call.
Look at trump.
At putin.
At arduan.
Look at xi jinping.
These strong men did not build a reputation based on their morality or their niceness, but on the image of being a tough guy.
A determined guy.
And the outcome is that they only grow stronger and stronger and so is there public support.
This is what people look for in a leader today.
In the same manner, we think that that's also what people look for in a superpower, in the leader of the world per se.
So sure, holding gtmo may not be moral, whatever that means, and the cubans may not like it that we are still there, but as the previous speaker himself mentions, this did not stop them from wanting to normalize the trade relations with the US as soon is fidel died.
It's just like russia that was able to annex crimea and intervene in syria, and is slowly but surely just like going back to being a superpower and the world sits idly by and there's not do anything about it.
The previous speaker is concerned for the soft power of the united states but I think that it wouldn't be serious to argue that people have stopped looking at the united states as a symbol due to guantanamo.
The united states will remain a superpower so long as it's the world's strongest economy, so long as it has the strongest army in the world and so long as there is no real opposition for hollywood.
These are the things that fuel america's soft power and once they will vanish, so will the soft power of the united states, and guantanamo has really very little to do with that.
So now you reach the question of torture and like is it justified, or is it useful.
And here, again, we don't really want to talk too much about make belief principles, or but like we wanna be as straightforward as possible.
The relevant question is whether guantanamo helps the security, the national security of the united states.
And because we think that the lives of our citizens matter more than the lives of people that are planning terror attacks against them.
So this is as far as we are willing to go in terms of principle.
The previous speaker argues that torture isn't effective because prisoners will tell you what you want to hear and not what you need to hear or something like that, and I'm unclear as to what this means.
We definitely think that torture can be effective, especially if it's done by professionals and especially in the case of people who are like ideologically driven against the west, and they will not want to cooperate in any other way.
So this could be the only way to subtract valuable information from them.
Look, obviously I'd I can't really name real life examples here, but I can use common sense and understand that the US government would not have went through the trouble of holding gtmo and would not be willing to pay like the huge sums that it does in order to to maintain it unless it would actually help.
Please oppose the motion.