Nationalism does more harm than good.
People are real.
Nations are imaginary.
They're nothing more than a human made's construct.
It's a concept that was created to effectively unite a large group of people and get them to cooperate with one another.
Nations are there for an important concept, but a concept nonetheless.
Once we start being loyal to some fiction story that we tell ourselves more than to actual living human beings, then we have a problem.
The way nationalism works is it brings a group of people closer together by distancing them from other groups that are now defined as different.
And sometimes even as enemies.
People have an innate need to form a kind of collective identity and feel that they belong to a certain group.
And the easiest and most common way to assert this identity is through the negative.
By opposing whoever is not like me I better understand who I am and who else is like me.
It's the us and them approach if you will.
Now that's just something natural that everyone does.
And the interesting question is, what elements gets the front stage in this identity?
What is going to dictate the foundation to the sense of identification that I have with the group?
Nationalism chooses to put the nationality element in the center.
What's wrong with that?
A few things.
A, nationality is arbitrary.
People are born to their nationality and didn't choose it whatsoever.
B, it's a binary criterion.
You can't do anything about your nationality.
It's not a scale.
You're either a part of us or you are not.
Now combining these two things together makes the distance between different groups much much harder to compensate.
And gets us to hate people from other nationalities.
Why?
Because people like to feel that their camp is the right camp.
The just camp.
This means that the other camp is necessarily wrong and unjust.
When we prioritize elements that are not coming from birth but rather from choice, that aren't binary but rather on a scale and change is possible, things like values or ideology, then it's not that these problems go away entirely but they become far less severe because it allows us to show more patience and understanding towards people from different groups.
If we can persuade you to join our camp, if that's possible, then we would rather talk sense to you and show you our side.
But if there's never any chance of us being on the same side then we might as well just fight each other.
This becomes super important when we deal with issues like foreign aid, like refugees, like the way in which we engage in wars.
We say that many atrocities in history have happened because national sentiment in a society that had turned people blind to the suffering of whoever isn't from their identity group.
Nationality also makes people far less open to accept criticism towards the state and what it's doing.
Because if somebody is like attacking what the nation is doing then he attacks the very basis, the very foundation of all of ours identity and therefore we cannot stand for this and he is considered a traitor to the group and we will want to shut him up.
And this also makes it that much easier for leaders to do whatever comes to their mind without being afraid of criticism because they know that they can control the the people by simply having them feel by simply like having nationalism writ large in society.
So for all of these reasons we are proud to propose.