Note: this is important.
It isn't opposition's burden in this debate to come up with a better alternative, merely to show that the affordable care act has brought more harm than good.
Therefore, we are just simply going to go over the three arguments presented by side proposition, and we're going to force them to deal with reality, a reality that, all by itself, refutes all of the arguments that they present.
So firstly, they tell us that the that the right for medical treatment should be a basic right for every citizen, and it's a problem to like and and private insurance, like private medical insurance, is a problem because it leaves out some of the people, not providing them with their basic rights.
Now we could argue on whether or not the right for medical treatment ease is a basic right, we don't think that's explained in any way by the government, that's merely assumed, but we say that we don't need to.
Because even if it were a basic right of the citizens, we would still ask why is it the responsibility of the states to provide that?
This is not something that automatically follows.
We say that people have a right for warm clothes during wintertime, right?
But that doesn't mean that the government or the state is responsible to provide these these clothes to the citizens.
But even if it were the state's role, this is an even if on an even if, we say that, surely, not at any not at any price, not at any cost.
And we would still have to ask ourselves how much is this goal worth to us, and is this the best way of achieving it?
Now, obamacare is expensive, very, very expensive.
The data speak about a cost of over a trillion dollars in the upcoming decade.
This is going to cause the country's debt, which is already huge, to drastically rise, and this is a major cause for concern.
We have heard nothing about that from side government.
Then they tell us: don't worry, obamacare still rests on the logic of the private market.
It only makes it affordable for almost everybody, and so americans are still able to stomach it without calling it socialism.
Well, yeah, ha, we see how well that worked.
Wake up, government.
This bill has stood in the heart of controversy and the heart of disagreement between democrats and republicans probably more than anything else in american politics, so we don't know what they're talking about.
Next they tell us that the biggest problem with being poor is that you need help and there's nobody to help you.
And and they say that that like obamacare somehow gives bigger bargaining power for the weakest people, and so they get better medical conditions or whatever.
Well, reports show that the lines, the waiting lines, for emergency rooms have gone up drastically since obamacare.
And this happens because less and less doctors are now willing to accept medicaid patients without, like, because they want to avoid all of the bureaucracy and all of the unrewarded extra work.
And so they just turn patients away to emergency rooms and so, the supply drops while the demand drastically rises, and people have to wait a lot longer in line.
Now this may sound petty, but it's not.
Longer lines for emergency rooms means that people are dying.
And lastly, they tell us that the thing with medical insurance is that I will be willing to to like pay any sum of money for it.
There's no cost high enough in order to save my own life, and this is why we see that the costs of medicare keep going up year after year.
And they say that the affordable care act sets a like set price and forces the rest of the private companies to, you know, to be somewhere around that price.
To which we just answer: on what set price are they talking about?
Premiums are higher than ever before with obamacare, if not like they are they're higher than most, if not all, other countries in the world, and there are constantly rising deductibles also are on the rise, which is how much, you know, self-participation you need to to put in.
This is consistently rising.
Now, I don't even have to present you with an elaborate economic argument, I just have the benefit of hindsight in this debate, and we simply see that reality doesn't fit what government side are saying.
So for all of these reasons, please oppose.