Government cannot win this debate by simply outlying disadvantages of standardized testing.
Obviously it has its downsides, otherwise there isn't a debate.
The question is whether on the comparative the alternative is better and the answer is absolutely not.
By the way, we didn't even get a sense of what exactly side government thinks that the alternative is going to be.
We hear firstly that it's a waste of time because the tests aren't like according to the level of the students.
This is an off clash argument because all it says is that we have to improve the tests themselves and allow them to express several levels so that there will be standardized tests for like more advanced and less advanced levels.
This is in no way an argument against standardized testing categorically.
Obviously the same goes to the point about how the content in these tests are is too basic or too wide, just improve the tests.
Then we hear that it's a waste of money.
We say that that is a generic point that basically fits every debate and therefore isn't exactly strong.
We say that if we show you that there is value to standardized tests, then clearly this is a wise investment.
Two arguments coming from us.
First, we say that this is the least discriminative tool that we have.
Reality is that we need information on how people performing on the skills of people that will be used is that like parameter for comparison in order to screen people.
There's no way around this.
We say that the demand for universities and then for job places exceeds the supply and therefore we have to screen somehow.
It's unlikely that government is going to oppose this.
We say that that is a very big part of the reason that we have standardized tests like the SAT for example to begin with.
The issue is that if there aren't going to be results of standardized tests, then we would have to allow for a certain like mechanism for in which people like select people on a case-by-case basis.
For example, I don't know, private interviews.
We say that this is way more dangerous.
Why?
Because then we are effectively allowing these institutions or the employers to enact certain considerations that don't necessarily have anything to do with the performance of the of the person sitting in front like in front of them and and we have no guarantee that they will not use wrongful considerations such as origin or race or gender or appearance.
Note, we don't even have to assume that there is wrongful intent on the part of whoever takes these decisions.
It is a proven psychological fact then that when people don't have an objective metric to decide by, they are influenced from several prejudice and stigmas.
This means that any type of impact that comes from side government on how standardized tests are discriminatory to the weaker students or to the ones that don't test well, we say that even if it's true to an extent it becomes way worse in their world because at least in today's world there is a chance for the weaker students to work hard and succeed.
Tomorrow, all chances are going to be against them without them have having anything to do about this.
Second argument, why we prefer the pressure of these tests to the indifference that comes when they don't exist.
So, it is true of course that pressure can harm the like the level of functioning but this is not something that's exclusive to these tests.
This is a necessary feature of life and society.
If we prevent our children from becoming exposed to this stress that that just is a natural part of being compared to other people in a young age, they will simply be exposed to that in a later later stage in life when they compete with others like on it workplaces or when they compete with their colleagues on promotions.
So the only difference is, then they will not have the tools to cope with that pressure, so at best we are simply delaying the fall for these people that government wants to protect and making the fall much more painful.
On the other hand, when people go to school and they know that there is not going to be any test eventually and that they will just receive some subjective test that is like according accorded to their own level, this endorses indifference and laziness especially today when parents have to when teachers have to compete with instagram and snapchat we say that one of the only things that allow children in school to maintain high motivation to focus and to like really work on their education is knowing that there's going to be a test in which they should do well.
We say that once that doesn't happen anymore, we think it's very likely that children's natural tendency to just like get busy with every other thing except for what's being studied in class is only going to become worse.
This enhances the problem that already exists in the education system of children that leave school ill informed and poorly educated.
Please oppose.