Just to be clear, I'm not going to argue that it's wrong to help preserve endangered animals or plants.
I don't think that we need to like spitefully push for their extinction.
I'm not a bad person.
But I will oppose the notion that says, that we have some some form of obligation to do this, or that we should do this also at like the expenses, that are relatively high to our own objectives as a species.
So first, the previous speaker talks about a moral obligation that we have towards plants and animals, because we are somehow directly or indirectly responsible for their extinction.
So, I think that we need to distinguish between plants and animals in this regard.
So firstly, I think that there's something very weird in saying, that we have some form of obligation, a moral obligation, whatsoever towards plants, because this position implies that plants have a moral status, that we are obligated to be concerned with, and we say, that a moral status is derived from the ability to be happy or miserable.
Being moral means acknowledging the wishes of others, and taking them into account.
But plants quite positively don't have wishes, or the capacity to be happy, or to suffer.
They don't have a brain, no nervous system, their life is of a significantly less developed form than ours.
So because of this, we don't think that it's possible to win this debate on ethical considerations towards plants.
With animals it's slightly different.
I do acknowledge that animals have a moral standing, not like plants, and that that we might have certain obligations that we need to consider towards them.
And so, in this case, I think that the question is what happens, when our agenda conflicts with theirs.
Again, I'm not in favor of actively pushing towards extinction, and as long as it really doesn't cost us much resources, or doesn't come at the expense of our own plans, then we don't have a a like disagreement, but where the cost is high, like having, for example, to forego on plans to establish a whole new village that's desperately needed, due to like overpopulation, where a forest now stands, where the last monkeys of their kind resides, or something like this, or perhaps refraining from fishing, because of some danger to a certain type of fish, in a place where fishing is both the main source of nutrition and income of the people.
These are the tough questions in this debate, and in in these cases we prefer to prioritize the needs of humans, just as we are fully certain that the animals would choose to favor themselves over us, where it up to them.
Next, we we hear the previous speaker talk about our interests too like, our own interest in preserving species, because there's a lot that we can learn from every type of of plant, or of of an animal, and of course my favorite argument on the circle of life, and how one extinction creates a chain reaction, that leads to more extinctions and so on.
Here is my answer: first, we need to understand that there are millions upon millions of different species in the world.
There's like a hundred and something different types of jellyfish, and several thousand species of olives, and every single day some of them are going extinct, simply due to evolution.
So, you know, the logic that says that every species that goes extinct is a horrible waste, and that we must strive to save them all, it's just unrealistic.
But secondly, evolution is actually a key term here, because what it does is make sure that each function, that is actually valuable, and is that's worth preserving, is actually preserved.
The species that are going extinct are those, that weren't able to develop apt traits, that are needed for survival, and therefore haya can rest assured that we have enough new species to explore, and that the ones that do remain are the important ones.
Please oppose.