We should adopt vegetarianism.
In fact we'd like to go even further and argue for full veganism.
By this we mean refraining to the best of our ability from any animal products of any kind.
We are very proud to stand for the side that says that needless pain and suffering can never be justified.
There are plenty of reasons that make people become vegetarians or vegans, like environmental reasons or health reasons.
We think that the most important reason is the moral one.
On one thing there can be no disagreement, and that is that the animal food industry is unimaginably cruel and completely unequivocal to anything else in history when it comes to the scale of living creatures being slaughtered and going through a miserable painful life.
These terrible conditions are unfortunately inherent.
And it's due to the fact that we need to produce millions of tons of beef and chicken and pork each and every day.
So after we've established all of this, we'll ask we'll we'll talk about two things.
First, why do animals deserve rights?
And second, why there just isn't a good enough excuse to justify harming these rights.
First argument: in this argument we're asking a bit of a philosophical question, and that is what's the criterion by which we decide who deserves having rights?
In saying rights we mean only the most basic ones.
Protection from physical abuse.
And that includes, of course, the right not to be eaten.
So we say that the only relevant and coherent criterion is the following: whoever is capable of experiencing pain, that's able to physically suffer, the reason is simple.
We say that suffering is a very bad thing no matter who feels it.
And we should always strive to minimize it.
We believe that any attempt to come up with an alternative criterion that's consistent is doomed to fail.
Simply saying that the criteria should be belonging to the human race, for instance, is of course assuming what needs proof.
Because the question is why?
So some suggest intelligent is a criterion.
But that means that retarded people, for example, don't deserve rights and so on.
We challenge the opposition to find a different criteria that doesn't raise serious problems when comes went like once under scrutiny.
And so since animals are definitely capable of suffering, at least those who have a nervous system, they fall within the category of creatures who deserve rights.
Second argument, so in this part we'll answer very briefly some of the excuses frequently made in favor of meat eating.
The first excuse is that meat is vital for our nutrition and therefore even if it is it is like even if animals have rights than in order for survival we must eat meat.
So we'll put aside the entire argument of whether or not meat is healthy, because the question here is whether it's vital.
It it whether it is a matter of life or death that we eat meat.
And the answer for this is clearly no.
There are millions of people with completely animal free diets that can testify to that fact.
So this means that it's merely a matter of convenience.
People enjoy eating animals.
But that's hardly a good enough justification to just squash someone else's rights, because I enjoy doing that.
The second excuse is that you know it's the food change and and and food chain and animals eat animals all the time.
It's natural.
Well we think that this argument simply doesn't carry any weight.
Of course animals don't share our moral norms, but morality is not meant to be mutual.
It's not a bargain.
We don't act like predators in the jungle in any other place in society and would never dream of implementing the same rules to civil society.
So this is again just a convenient excuse and nothing else.
Lastly, but also note that there is great hypocrisy in how we usually care for some animal right animals rights, namely dogs and cats, but not for the rights of farm animals.
This comes to show that there is no logic here.
They these are all just old customs that have taken root.
Please propose.