If the problem that side government has in this debate is with dangerous activities, what is going to be the verdict of traditional sports that are also dangerous?
Mountain climbing, formula one races, american football, traditional skiing, boxing, hockey.
This is starting to be quite a lot of things that government is going to ban and this gives us a hint of how dangerous it becomes when the criteria of what allows the government to intervene is vague.
James tells us firstly that there is an asymmetry of information between the children that these sports appeal to and the companies that take advantage of their innocence.
Two answers here, a, the reason that these sports are more appealing to children is that we're talking about relatively new fields.
Children are interested in all types of sports, not just extreme sports.
And when people grow up they are more interested in sports that they knew growing up.
So they'll go to see baseball games and not x games because they didn't grew up on it.
And it's hard to teach an old dog new tricks.
But once this generation is going to get older, where we are we will see more and more adults that will be interested in x games, in fact this is already happening.
B, there are many other fields that are trying to appeal to children and to sell stuff to them.
This is obviously true in cases like mcdonald's and other junk food companies in which case we are even talking about something that also does end up harming those children, but this is also true in cases of toy manufacturers that just want to sell more and more barbie dolls that the children don't really need.
In all of those fields we can talk about the power imbalance that proposition are talking about but we don't simply shut down every toy manufacturer or every junk food company because luckily it is still the parents that are responsible for the children and get to decide what they agree and don't agree to buy them.
Then james moves on to talk about damage to third parties.
The families that are suffering and the burden that this has on the healthcare system.
Only james neglects to mention that in liberal societies we believe in the principle that says that the citizen has the freedom and the right to do things that risks that like might harm him.
If in every step that I take I had to factor in what might be the ultimate costs to the healthcare system or the suffering to my family than people were not not of been able to take any kind of risk.
By the way we're not only talking about physical risks.
Note, the same logic also applies to financial risks.
If I bet on a stock, or I try and go out with a new business venture, there is a chance that I am going to lose my money.
If the government was allowed to take into account the harm to my family and to the rest of the economy then they will force me not to do it and at this point this is no longer a free society but a tyranny.
Then he says that it's bad for the sporting culture because it doesn't involve teamwork and this comes at the expense of other sporting activities that might have taught me more about team work.
There are some hugely problematic things with this argument.
Let's touch upon them one by one.
First, clearly when you reach a professional level in which you compete with other people than you do have a coach and sponsors and staff and all of this.
But this is less important, even if it were true.
B, to a great many people, maybe even most people, the only like sport activities that they do come down to, either running or swimming or going to the gym, no teamwork here.
Does the government really think that this is enough of a cause to simply ban all of these things?
C, people have a limited amount of time, so to a great extent, everything that I do in on my free time is a trade off.
When I play in the computer or when I watch television this comes at the expense of other things that involve teamwork.
Maybe this should have been banned as well.
So in short, we simply don't understand where does this assertion come from that people are somehow obligated to this idea of team work.
What side government don't seem to understand in this debate is the huge difference between saying that one thing is preferential to another thing and between thinking that it's legitimate for the government to step in and forbid what it finds as less beneficial.
Please oppose the motion.