We should ban genetically modified crops.
We argue that the consumption of genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, is essentially equivalent to experimenting on humans and might be incredibly risky.
Two arguments in the speech: firstly, on why we just don't know enough yet, and then, secondly, on why labeling isn't enough in this case.
First argument: why we just don't know enough yet.
So while it is true that some studies have found GMOs to be harmless, this is a matter that is very far from being scientifically settled.
The fact is many countries, big countries, including france and russia, bans these products based on health concerns made by specialists.
In fact, the majority of the studies in the US supporting GMOs were conducted by, or at the request of, the companies manufacturing GMOs, which is of course hugely problematic in terms of the findings and the conclusions that they came to and how much they are reliable.
And even if those studies were perfectly objective, we think that they are still not reassuring enough, simply because GMOs are a relatively new invention.
They'd only been consumed since roughly the late nineties, and that's not nearly enough time to seriously test and and gauge and appreciate the long-term effects of having a genetically modified diet.
After all, there are legitimate reasons to be concerned here when dealing with a precedent that's never been tried before anywhere in history and is rapidly becoming one of the main sources of nutrition, for the western world at least.
Second argument: why labeling isn't enough.
So, the other side might go up and argue that even if there's there are some health concerns, that's still not a good enough reason to ban GMOs, but we can simply label them in a way that allows each consumer to choose whether to buy them or not, just like we do with other things that are not healthy or that are controversial.
Here's the problem with that: GMOs tend to cost cheaper than natural crops.
That's like that makes sense since they can be grown all year round and so on.
This means that, specifically for poor consumers that need to save on every dime, there isn't really a choice but to purchase them, whether they like to or not, and we think that this is wrong and enough of a reason to ban GMOs for now, at least up until that point which it really has been proven harmless in the long run as well.
What side government stands for in this debate is not against GMOs principally, but behind the principle that says that at least until we can make certain that something some new thing, that's never been tried before, doesn't have a catastrophical effect, we must err on the side of caution and not allow corporate interests to dictate, to rather control, our common sense.
Very proud to propose.