Casinos are far from being perfect, but all of the current problems that exist in casinos are about to become far more severe in their absence.
And that means that, all in all, casinos are a net good.
Our argument is going to be fairly simple and it is about the black market that is created in the absence of casinos.
But before that, two points of rebuttal.
So, the first argument made by the previous speaker is about how casinos are, you know, programmed to squeeze as as much money out of people as possible.
It's not just gambling we're being told because the expectancy of gains is always going to be negative.
We say that we simply shouldn't look at casinos as an investment, but rather a fun activity that people like go out to casinos to have fun.
The previous speaker himself said that casinos are a way for people to be entertained.
We say that the people that go there and visit casinos more likely like they know that, more likely than not, they're going to lose money, but they are awarded with the feeling of, you know, thrill and, you know, expecting that maybe what if this time it's going to work.
In this sense, we believe a casino is not much different from restaurants or movie theaters.
These are all businesses that are meant to squeeze money out of customers, but the customer can choose whether he freely walks in there and pay, because he feels that it's worth his money.
The second argument is about the crime that's associated with casinos like, you know, excessive drinking that leads to violence or DUIs.
We say that that is also true to like just normal bars, right?
And in addition, we hear that it attracts prostitution and drugs, and we're going to accept that this might be many times true to some degree.
But we are going to argue that without casinos, all of these effects are going to become much more severe.
So moving on to the constructive argument.
I'm going to to quote once more what the prime the previous speaker said.
He said that casinos are a manifestation of the worst impulses of people, and we don't necessarily disagree.
But the thing about impulses is that it's very hard to fight them.
If we try to simply repress them or ignore them, they tend to resurface and the harder we try, the more aggressively the outburst is.
We argue that casinos, albeit not perfect, provide the most orderly outlet and the most controllable outlet for people who need things such as gambling and drinking and so on.
We say that in places where there are no casinos, it's not that people just cease with all of these habits.
They find them in the black market, in all like in shady rooms backstage of some club that is owned by some criminal organization and the like.
These are places where the law isn't present.
You know, casinos in las vegas maybe turn a blind eye to small like, you know, to to small violations, like prostitutions or drugs but these are still, all in all, you know, clean places.
They are crowded places.
It's not likely that you could just beat a person up to death without anybody noticing or knowing.
But the same doesn't apply in the black market.
There, people truly find themselves in crippling debts with a true life threat situation in like in situations where they cannot repay that debt.
What like the black market gambling is what truly sucks people into the circle of crime.
So for all of these reasons, we think that casinos bring more good than harm.