Open primaries in the united states are advantageous.
Our mechanism for this debate is that of traditional open primaries.
This means that every voter can now choose which party he's interested in voting for and then cast one vote only with the name of the candidate of his choosing.
It essentially means that democrats can now choose to participate in republican primaries and vice versa.
Two arguments in the speech: first, why this is justified and second, why this is also socially efficient.
So firstly, why is this justified?
The core principle in a democracy, if nothing else, is that every citizen can now take an active role in deciding who gets to decide.
If I don't have the ability to influence who gets to to sit in the higher seats and offices, then this is no longer a democracy, but a tyranny.
The second most important principle is that everyone gets the same amount of influence as anybody else.
If there exists one group that gets a bigger influence on the outcome of an election, so this essentially means that we have broken the first principle because again, my voice my vote doesn't have true power.
I don't really have an ability to influence and then it's no longer a democracy, but it's like an oligarchy.
So where is the problem today?
Let's imagine that there let's imagine like in an election campaign, where it is already well established that one party is going to win, let's simply assume that there's a substantial majority to one of the two parties over the other.
This is not an absurd situation.
This means that the general elections are becoming less important and the truly critical elections that are going to determine who gets to become president are the primaries of that majority party.
Now assuming that over there, there's a more like a closer race between the candidates.
So if this is a closed primaries, then eventually this is an event that's going to determine who gets to have power to influence my life, but I might be precluded from it.
So this is simply undemocratic.
This means that only the constituents of the majority party gets to effectively decide who becomes president.
It would have been one thing had it been a role that influences only this these constituents.
But it's totally different thing when this is a decision that gets to to influence everybody.
Therefore, by principle, we think that the only justified solution would be to open up the primaries to whoever wishes to participate in shaping the government of the country.
Second argument: why is this also efficient?
So, we say that this principled argument gets a very practical foundation, specifically in the united states with the electoral college system that leads to millions of people that feel that their voice their votes don't actually matter.
If I'm living in a country that's not a swing in the states or that's not a swing state, then it doesn't even matter if I'm if I'm in the minority or in the majority.
The outcome is that many times like the outcome is many times just known up front, and there is nothing that I can do to change that, and this leads to a very small turnout in these states because people get disincentivized to actually go out and vote.
And as a result, we are getting representatives that it would be very hard to say that truly represent the the will of the majority of the people.
This means that the democracy just ceases to be an effective tool in terms of representing and executing the true will of the people.
Once we open up the primaries and people can participate in setting the candidates of the other party, we say that more people will be interested in participating because they will feel that for the first time in their lives, their votes can actually matter and mean something.
This means more motivation to show up and vote, which means a higher turnout, which means now democracy gets to be more efficient.
For all these reasons, we're very proud to propose.