We should prohibits tower blocks and we should do this for a number of reasons: the first is security.
High rise construction poses a much bigger threat than low rises to its residents and to everyone around it.
The height makes these buildings highly sensitive for earthquakes and in cases that like in case a fire breaks out, it's incredibly complicated for firefighters both to evacuate the people and then to seize control of the flames.
The second reason is like hardships with infrastructure.
Providing proper ventilation and water pressure and electricity and a sewage system for all these floors isn't an easy or a cheap task as well.
Thirdly and crucially, since opposition are likely to talk about how this provides a solution for population density in urban areas, we think that that is a very bad thing, since it only endorses more and more people to continue moving to city centers and exacerbates this problem of density.
Because even if high rise projects are able to solve the problem of housing, having millions of people concentrating on too little an area creates many additional problems, like for instance pollution and like crime rates that tends to go up, and then overload on public facility in like public facilities and and public services.
If tower blocks will be prohibited, this will leave no choice for people but to be dispersed on a wider territory which is much more reasonable and advantageous for society, economically speaking, then having like then each state having one or two areas that are huge busy business hubs while all the rest is just vast vast areas of just residential like neighborhoods where almost no economic activity takes place.
This makes no sense, this disparity.
Fourthly, we automatically tend to think of high rises as new and shining and luxurious projects but already today there are problems with several decades old tower blocks in london, for instance, which are crumbling in the good case scenarios and outright abandoned in the worst case scenarios.
And the new projects and the shiny projects of today will also not stay this way forever.
The problem with this is that it's an incredibly complicated and costly operation to demolish such gigantic projects.
Unlike with normal construction which with relative ease could be like you can we can just tear down a house and build something new on top of it.
Lastly, we think that the mentality that this type of living creates for people is less preferable than that of living in a normal three four flat residential building, or in a private house.
When you live in a normal building you know your neighbors you communicate with them whether you like it or not.
You develop a certain sense of community.
And there is something about tower blocks that's incredibly individualistic.
There is no way that you are going to know all your neighbors, even if you try, so you just stop trying.
You just live your own life.
And we think that that's a bad thing.
So to sum it all up, while we think that for each of this of these reasons individually it might not be enough of a reason to ban tower blocks, if we combine all of it together it most certainly is.
So please propose.