Holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.
If the holocaust taught us one thing it's that some ideas have to be fought hard and killed before they can take root and create massive harm.
Free speech is important, but so is the right to feel safe and secure from racist persecution.
Holocaust deniers are taking history's most scarred victims and victimizing them once more, by a: denying them the very basic kindness of acknowledgment that they so deserve, b: calling them liars and manipulators, and c: demonstrating to them that the lessons of the holocaust weren't learned by everyone and that danger still looms for them and their families.
This is unacceptable.
On the first argument, I'll explain what's the difference between holocaust deniers and other forms of deniers.
In the second argument, I'll explain why extreme and inflammatory ideas spread fast and are hard to fight with logic.
And lastly, I'll talk about why is this so crucial to make this thing criminal right now.
Let's start with the first argument.
Many people hold foolish beliefs or choose not to believe certain scientific or historic truths.
We can take creationists, for example, who deny the theory of evolution and believe that the world was created some six thousand years ago, or people that are convinced that no man has ever landed on the moon and it's all a part of some great conspiracy.
It is their right to believe so because as frustrating as this may be for people around them, there isn't a direct victim stemming from these beliefs.
It's mostly themselves that suffer the social consequences.
But with holocaust deniers it's different.
Their claims target specifically holocaust survivors, calling them cheaters and who manipulate the public.
They deny jewish families the right to peacefully and respectfully remember their lost ones or commemorate their collective tragedy.
Moreover, when a jewish person, not to mention a survivor, encounters these deniers, they just can't help but automatically have all sorts of emotions stir up, because it reminds them of the antisemitic sentiments that lead to the holocaust to begin with: blaming jews for conspiring, distorting facts, etcetera.
And that's just terrifying to them obviously.
This turns this specific type of denial to an extremely violent act.
Next argument.
One of the bigger lessons humankind needs to learn from the holocaust is that people can be very easily convinced to adopt radical beliefs, especially when these beliefs provide an outlet to anger by finding a scapegoat to blame for everything.
Unfortunately, even after the war, antisemitism is still a thing all over the world, and antisemitic people would love to believe that the holocaust is just a jewish invention, and then go on hating jews with a less heavy heart.
Even if a particular holocaust denier has no racist inclination, he simply doesn't believe it for whatever reason, he's indirectly supporting and providing fresh ammo for the antisemitic agenda.
We think that people who don't support criminalizing holocaust denial are probably assuming this will remain a marginal and negligible problem.
But what if they're wrong?
Will they allow a holocaust-denying party win over parliament?
News flash: in many places in europe, the far right is on the rise.
Golden dawn in greece, jobbik in hungary, marine le pen's father is a proclaimed holocaust denier.
This isn't a negligible problem.
Maybe they also assume that, you know, these ideas are best left for the free market of ideas where more enlightened ideas will prevail, but this assumes a rational and logical thought process, and racism is forever an emotional thing.
Logic cannot prevail here.
Last but not least, why is it crucial to do this right now?
So we've seen that there is reason to be frightful.
We need to add here that given that the holocaust happened over seventy years ago and the survivors' generation will soon disappear, even though evidence is abound, it'll be much easier to plant doubts in people's minds fifty years from now.
This means we must act now and prevent these horrible ideas from becoming normalized.
Proud to propose.