So, side government chose to set this debate up from the perspective of the third world countries, which we aren't certain that it's entirely fair play, but we'll go along.
So the first point they make is the loss of human capital.
And this is kind of an odd point.
First of all because this is really not a like big enough phenomenon to really be impactful, especially since these countries often suffer problems of overpopulation.
So it's a little strange to say that they must insist on a few extra thousand children, at best, remaining in the country.
Moreover, the children that are getting adopted are at the very least just as likely to become poor and sick rather than a healthy educated worker.
That's why they are being adopted in the first place, right?
It's a charity.
So, in this regard, international adoption actually does these countries a favor.
This logic also applies to the point about like adopting babies for that come from an ethnic minority group because as long as these babies, as horrible as this may sound, are more likely to to become a liability or a burden on this community, then this entire talk about human capital is irrelevant.
I'm sorry if this may seem too cynical an approach.
I am merely responding to side government that has brought the, you know, the other side of the same coin.
Second point they make is about how this this turns those babies into a commodity.
They tell us that businesses are are are like starting to specialize in international adoption, and then they don't treat these children as individuals but merely the source for income.
So firstly, I'm not like I'm not sure if the previous speaker notices just how ironic this claim sounds right after he argues that we should keep these children in the third world, because they can be used to benefit the economy.
But like let's put this tension aside for a minute.
It's just unclear to me how you can seriously argue against international adoption from the angle of what's best for the child himself.
Is the adoption procedure easy and uncomfortable?
Of course it isn't.
It never is.
But the government never bothers to actually talk about the comparative, which is to force them to remain in extreme poverty conditions.
They talk about how many children might be sent back.
I don't know why that's true, that's something that needs like statistical testing but like in any case, this is, at best, criticism that is aimed against the method in which this procedure is being handled and not the principle itself of international adoption.
We are not against, for instance, making sure that the parents will have to fly over and meet the child before the adoption, for that matter.
And lastly, the government finally talks about what we believe to be the this the main clash in this debate, and that is the comparison with other local orphaned children.
So they tell us that people want to adopt babies and not like grown children, and that is why they turn to international adoption.
So I'm really uncertain that this is really why people do this, and not because, for instance, people are just interested in doing an a kind act, perhaps the kindest there is, and save the life of a of a child that otherwise would have been sentenced to pretty miserable conditions.
But if we assume that side government is right, then it's entirely unclear from their analysis why does this preference not to adopt older children will go away after we prohibit the international option.
This like this can just as likely say that we simply like that simply less people will opt for adoption, which means more orphaned children in the world that never get to have a family, and that is terrible.
Please oppose this unreasonably unjust motion.