We should ban human cloning.
This doesn't mean that we would have to ban the cloning of particular human organs or the cloning of animals but there can be no more research into the cloning of full human beings.
The first argument is about experimenting on human beings.
So I hope we would all be in agreement that medical experimentation on humans is a horrible concept that must be forbidden.
But we have to understand that even though we were able to clone a baby sheep some twenty years ago, we are still incredibly far from being able to clone human babies in full smoothly.
Maybe we would eventually reach that point.
Maybe not.
But in order to get there we have to, and that's not like and there's no other way, we have to go through a lengthy experimental period of time during which scientists will work on this using the method of trial and error.
This means that you know thousands maybe tens of thousands of initial specimen will be created and they will at first be very defective and then gradually less and less so.
Maybe, again.
So what we are concerned about here is this interim trial period in which we would need to experiment on sick and deformed human creatures with emotions and feelings and everything.
And have them suffer and go through a lot of pain in some lab somewhere just so we can perfect our knowledge of how to better clone healthy human beings.
The only way that this can be somehow justified is by clinging to some ultra strict utilitarian principle and and say that this could somehow lead to huge progress and save more lives in the future.
But a, we can't really be sure of that.
We don't know how long it would take or how successful we will ever be.
Note that even after the famous case of dolly the sheep we don't hear of new animals animal clones being made because ninety nine percent of them still come out faulty.
It's simply too complicated an issue for our scientists as of yet.
We have a long and cruel way ahead of us.
And b, we just don't apply such utilitarian logic.
We wouldn't agreed to murder or abuse one person in cold blood just to save three others and we don't use human beings as means this way.
And c, many of the potential health benefits or scientific benefits from human cloning can also be achieved by merely cloning organs or animals, so we don't need human cloning for that.
Let's move onto the second argument.
So let's say you weren't convinced by the previous argument.
Even if it didn't take an ugly trial period and we could be able to produce perfect human clones for reproductive purposes today this would still be very wrong and should be banned.
Why?
Because these clothes will be brought into a world that will not know how to deal with them.
It's not to be taken for granted that they will even enjoy the same freedoms and rights and protections as we do.
But even if they do, it'll take an incredibly long time before they are trusted fully by society and can really feel equal.
Why?
Because human society is incredibly bad at accepting whoever is a bit different.
Just look at racism right?
Look at the african american struggle towards equality that is amazingly still far from being over today.
Look at the LGBT struggle for acceptance.
It's super naive to believe that clones that literally weren't born the same way as human beings are will be welcomed any better.
Obviously they will they will face immense backlash coming from religious or conservative communities calling them abominations and all that.
They are almost surely to face cruelty or violence from abusive parents that will see them more as pets than humans.
And I'm out of time so for all of these reasons propose the motion.