In the beginning of the previous speaker's speech, we heard that he intends to talk about how there isn't and shouldn't be a right to bear arms but apparently he forgot, because sadly he never got around to it.
If I am to show that this is a basic right, then all of the arguments that came from the previous speech about how this is or isn't necessary, they just don't matter anymore because if it is a basic right, then we mustn't impose stricter controls or limitations on it.
Well, here is the explanation.
We think that if there ever existed such a thing as a natural right, an inalienable right, then it must be the right to self-defense.
If someone tries to attack you, the rule of nature, the law of nature, requires and demands that you would be illegitimate in trying to defend yourself.
This has existed far, far like way before the modern state ever came to be.
And when someone comes when the person that comes and tries to attack you is much bigger and stronger than you, to the point that you literally have no chance of defeating him with your own bare hands, then you are also perfectly within your rights of self-defense to pick up a brick or a wooden beam or something and use them as weapons.
But what if you are so small and and weak and you live among people, some of which much larger and stronger than you, and they can at any given moment try and attack you, and let's say that it is even quite a likely event that some of them will try.
When that happens, there is no way for you to make sure that you will find bricks or wooden beams to save you in the moment of truth.
What then?
Surely, it would be fair to say that just to be on the safe side, you would be legitimate in carrying around these weapons with you.
This is a very reasonable extension of your right to self-defense.
Let's take one further step.
What happens if some of these big bad mean people also manage to put their hands on bricks and sticks and they plan to use them in order to attack you?
Alas, the balance is against you yet again.
In this particular case, in order to keep yourself , you know, secure, there is no choice but to step it up a notch and acquires some deadlier equipment.
This is how we eventually reach from the undeniable fact that everyone has a right to self-defense to the necessary conclusion of a right to bear arms, a right which, as the founding fathers were smart enough to recognize, no government can legitimately take away.
Now, let's ask what's likely to happen once we introduce stricter gun control?
Daniel tries to say that this way we would have less gun violence because bad people will have less access to firearms.
We disagree.
We think that with the amount of weapons already purchased and that are already circulating, with no good way of regulating them obviously, plus with black markets that are going to be, it is very, very unlikely that a bad person that wants to put his hands on an assault rifle will not manage in finding one.
What is likely, though, is that good law-abiding people will have less weapons because it will be harder to acquire weapons.
This is bad twice.
Firstly, because you need a good guy with a gun in order to stop a bad guy with a gun, and the more people walking around with guns for self-defense, the the the quicker an incident of shooting or mass shooting can be contained.
But secondly, we say that guns deter assailants to begin with.
If I plan an attack and I see that a lot of people in the in the area have weapons, then it's far less likely that I will go through with it.
I will look for a weak spot, and the more gun control we have, the more weak spots we have.
For all of these reasons, please oppose the motion.