We should legalize polygamy.
I can think of no legitimate reasons for the government to enter their citizens' private lives and dictate who they can or cannot marry.
We cannot call ourselves liberal and support gay marriage and then oppose polygamy.
Two arguments in this speech: one, polyamory is a thing.
Get over it.
And two, what about the children?
First argument: our criminal system is generally based on the harm principle that says the only justification for making something illegal is if someone gets harmed by this.
When it comes to the strict ban on polygamy, proponents of the ban are very quick to explain how, for example, a man with several wives is necessarily a form of cruel oppression.
They immediately jump to the conclusion that this constitutes real harm and therefore, it's okay to ban this activity based on the harm principle.
Just note that this requires some very deterministic, implicit assumptions on what human nature is.
These people say it's surely unnatural for a woman to choose to share her husband with another woman, therefore, this must be forced upon her.
We say that there is no real difference between this line of thinking and opposers of gay marriage, that also just have their personal convictions of what is natural human behavior and what isn't.
It's equally intolerant and equally ignorant, because the fact is that polygamy is in our nature.
It is monogamy, of all things, that is a fairly new concept.
If we look at our ancient ape ancestors, we can see that they have several mates at any given moment.
Another testimony to this truth is the fact that monogamy struggles very hard to stay relevant today.
With the rate of divorce surging and the breathtaking amount of infidelity, this is a constant reminder that perhaps there's something not too natural to monogamy.
Now don't get me wrong, this isn't an argument against monogamy.
This is simply like this simply points out the hypocrisy of the automatic opposers of polygamy.
We actually don't care what's natural and what isn't.
We simply believe that people should be free.
They should be free to live together in whichever way they see fit, without society deciding for them, especially not on something so private and so important.
And you know what, even if in some instances this does lead to some party in some marriage being unhappy, in which case obviously they could always get a divorce, we also think that people should be allowed to make mistakes.
God knows that many people aren't happy in their monogamous relationship as well, but this doesn't mean that we should ban marriage, right?
Let's move onto the next argument.
What about the children?
So, some people are less concerned for the wives or husbands, but for the children growing up in polygamous households.
We find this equally presumptuous, and even baffling, in an age where thirty to forty percent of children have divorced parents and grow up in the most complicated family arrangements.
It's perfectly normal for a child nowadays to spend half the week with his mom, stepdad, stepbrother, half-sister on his mother's side and a dog, and the other half with his dad, stepmom, stepsister, half-brother on his father's side, and a cat.
So with all of this complexity, children are still usually ending up just fine.
Why assume that it will be that much harder for children to grow up in polygamous households?
We don't understand this.
The same elements of competition with your brothers over the parents' affection and all of these incredibly scary things that opposition might talk about still exists today with children to divorced parents, but they're far from impossible to work out.
And so eventually, we think that the only real reason we still ban polygamy is that like people's conservative mindsets that a marriage should only take a very specific form, we think that it's intolerant, we think that there's no good justification for it, and we're very proud to propose to lift this ban.