What we hear from side government is more or less that due to the effects of the aging of the population, raising the retirement age is necessary in order to sustain the social security benefits system.
Because life expectancy has gone up, they tell us, people will still be able to enjoy their retirement even if we were to raise the retirement age.
But the first major problem with their with the model that they're suggesting is that they want to calculate the age of retirement like according to the average life expectancy.
The thing is average is a tricky thing.
While it is true that the average life expectancy has gone up, this doesn't mean that it has gone up equally for everybody.
It's an average so, in fact, the data shows that while for the upper class life expectancy has indeed gone up significantly during the last decades, for the lower class it has barely budged.
So, it makes sense that, on average, life expectancy has gone up, but this also means that if we set the age of retirement according to the average life expectancy, this will create a very serious discrimination between different classes in society, and it's going to be the lower class that is going to suffer a great deal, because now they they'll be forced to work a lot more, and rest a lot less.
So, now you're probably asking yourselves, " okay, we get it, but the population is still aging, so what can we do about the sustainability problem that side government talks about? "
Well, the truth, in fact, is that although aging is a thing and definitely something that's going on, it's not really that big of a threat to the sustainability of like the entire retirement program.
How come?
Simple.
Because people and governments are also, with time, becoming richer.
Economies are advancing and doing better like as the years go by, and this happens thanks to advancements in knowledge and technology that allow each worker to be much more productive during the years that he is working or, in other words, the total factor productivity is constantly rising.
And this is something that's true cross classes: true for the upper class and it's true for the lower class.
So this means that instead of forcing everyone to work a lot more for many more years, we can quite simply just raise a little bit the rate of the premiums and solve the sustainability problem.
So eventually, we at opposition think that be capitalistic world has made people, turned people, into labor machines, and that the fact that people spend forty to fifty years of their lives working five to six days a week is already more than enough.
There is more to this life than just work.
We think that once you have grandchildren, we can say that regardless of how many years you still have left, you have already contributed enough to society, and you deserve to use the years that you still have in order to rest and to travel the world and to spend time with your family.
For all of these reasons, we are proud to oppose.