We should disband the united nations.
What would happen is we would keep some of the UN's more functional agencies running, meaning we would still have things like the world health organization or the world bank operating independently, and we would still keep certain international treaties intact like the nonproliferation treaty for example.
But the general assembly and it's and the security council will definitely be dismantled.
We are somewhat ambivalent towards the international courts.
I think that we should keep them running and they are important bodies, but with significant changes to their modest operandi today that will allow them more power and authority than they currently hold.
So the first reason as to why we should do this is that the UN has become almost utterly worthless.
We believe that any formal body that fails miserably at achieving its declared goals is basically just a costly liability on the expense of people's pockets.
The UN, without a doubt, falls into this category.
Its raison d'etre was to promote world peace and protect human rights abuses.
However, ever since its inception and to this very day, there are very few examples of accomplishments or successes that this body can take pride in.
Meanwhile horrible wars and human rights catastrophes are abound.
As we speak innocent men, women, and children in syria are being butchered by a cruel tyrant with the UN unable to do a damn thing about it.
Not even issue an official freaking condemnation.
This is of course an inherent problem that results from the ridiculous structure of powers within the security council.
A structure that allows countries like the US and russia to simply veto each other's resolutions out as if this is some funny table game.
The UN therefore is rightfully seen by the entire world as a joke, as a spineless, toothless organization with men running around in suits and occasionally issuing some meaningless resolution.
So at this point we have to ask the question, if the UN isn't seen by dictators as a deterrent and can't do anything to assert more credibility than what good does it do?
The second reason that we should do this is that it's an incredibly biased and unfair body.
So I already mentioned the weird power structure within the security council.
But we need to understand that the UN was established after world war two by the winning powers and designed to basically consolidate and preserve that power.
Thus many see the UN and its sub agencies as nothing but just a political tool in the hands of the west and the US in particular to assert their dominance and not as an objective body that's truly concerned with world peace or with you know humanitarian causes.
More over there are clear biases and differential treatment.
Look at how, for example, the general assembly unproportionately deals with condemning israel while neighboring countries are constantly violating human rights on a much, much larger scale.
Now think what you will about israel's policies in the west bank.
We believe that no honest man can really say that there isn't something funny going on with the treatment that it receives from the united nations.
And this is of course just a result of the great number of arab countries in the general assembly that together allow for a huge palestinian lobby while ignoring human rights abuses that are less convenient for the arab world to discuss.
What this all means is that this bias is also an inherent problem.
This is just not a body that we can ever aspire will be truly objective and truly concerned with human rights equally.
This body is consumed by politics and forever will be.
So for all of these reasons the UN has lost all justification to exist in its current form.
If anything it works as an inhibitor for world peace and not as a promoter of it and and we should disband it.