So we think that side government rightfully categorizes the two cases that are relevant to the issue of prenatal diagnosis, the first being kids who might be born with all types of severe diseases, terminal diseases, and this tool allows parents to prematurely terminate the pregnancy.
The truth is that we don't really have a lot of opposition here.
We don't we can't really argue, we accept this harm, but the thing is that they themselves admit, side government themselves admit, that these cases are very are very few in number compared to the second group, which is kids who are just born with less serious disabilities and that, like, children that will have to face all types of special challenges, and they require special care.
And we're being told is that , you know, parents just don't always know what's required and as soon as we allow them to know ahead of time, then they could, you know, do their homework, can be better prepared at that moment of actual birth.
So, to this we say, like, really that is all of the harm that they are able to to point out.
What's the delta here?
The two or three or four months of knowing in advance.
We don't really understand what's so significant about this.
They tell us that this way, the child could immediately receive all of the all of the attention and and special care that he requires without the adjustment period.
But we don't really understand, up until the very end of the speech, like on which preparations are they talking about that couldn't simply be made after the baby is born.
And we say that even if things take awhile to settle, I mean it's not like the baby is going to remember his first few months in life.
So, really, we just don't understand what's the big added benefit here.
The second thing that they do is say that it helps the parents better mentally prepare themselves for the situation.
But we would say that we don't think that you can seriously argue that these few extra months are enough in order to learn how to cope with the fact that you were that you have a child with a disability.
We say that the that the process of accepting that is a lot longer and you have no way of, you know, preparing yourself in advance.
It is not up until the moment where you get to see with your own eyes that your kid is different that you can start truly experiencing all of the difficult like all of the mental difficulties that come with this.
This like we're talking about something that parents usually take a lot of years and a lot of therapy to really overcome.
So, here as well, it's just unclear to us what is the contribution of this, you know, early information.
So now let's move on to talk about the harms of prenatal diagnosis.
And what we in opposition are afraid from is the scenario in which people are about to give birth to disabled children and once they find out, they will choose to abort them.
Now again, we're not talking about severe defects but any diagnosis, even the most simple one.
If I find out that my kid suffers from autism or that he's blind or deaf or physically handicapped in any way.
So we think that many parents will just prefer to abort this child rather than to have to face and deal with the difficulties.
And why is that so bad?
Well because we believe that this will have a devastating effect on the efforts of the disabled community to fit in in society.
We think that processes like prenatal diagnosis and and selection are strengthening the stigma or the social convention that we have today that people with disabilities are a mistake of nature and are worthy of pity or that they are a burden on society, rather than people just seeing them as a different and challenging, yet no way less deserving, form of living.
We honestly think that a lot of the hardships of those people lies with the ignorance of society and the fear of everything that's slightly different from the norm.
And we think that that, like, as soon as people can simply avoid giving birth to to children with disabilities, they will become far less visible in the in the public sphere, and people will have far less reasons to support their political struggles and because, you know, they know that they they don't have this fear that their children might enjoy the fruits of these struggles as well, and so on and so forth.
And for all of these reasons, we're very proud to oppose.