Our constructive point is going to be about the moral stance of embryos in which I shall establish that they do in fact have the right to life in all stages of pregnancy.
Before that a few points of refutation to the previous speaker: first thing, when the prime minister discusses the advantages in the stem cell research and how it helps in saving lives, he makes it sound as if it's the simplest thing on earth, as if we are talking about a fourth grade science project in which it's clear to us what are the outcomes going to be.
This of course doesn't reflect the reality of these researchers.
We are talking about extremely complex research that like that's progress is incredibly slow and the amount of uncertainty far outweighs the level of certainty.
Why is this important?
Because we need to understand that the that the vast majority of the embryo cells that are being used for this research don't end up leading to any significance significant new life saving conclusion.
Therefore unlike what proposition are saying, it is fundamentally different from a situation in which like a pregnancy is endangering the life of the mother, because in that case the abortion can very much in in great probability, save the life of the mother, but rather in this case there is no good reason to believe that sacrificing this particular embryo amounts to a significant enough contribution to saving life.
Next, proposition try and quickly avoid a serious discussion in the and like the possibility that we are talking about a creature with a right to life by saying listen the scientific community doesn't acknowledge that.
Well we don't really care what the scientific community thinks on that matter simply because this is not a scientific question, but rather a philosophical one if you will.
And we most certainly think that we are discussing a creature with a right to life.
Eventually based on these two flaw discursions proposition try to make a comparison and say that the good outweighs the harm so we can say that they haven't really proven anything eventually.
Onto the constructive.
We do believe that embryos have a right not to be killed starting from conception.
Why?
Well the most important thing that we need to ask ourselves is what makes killing so bad?
And we think that like the simple and obvious reason is that killing causes untimely death.
But what's so bad about that?
Well what's horrible about like dying is that it deprives the one that's dying of the potential future like benefits of being alive.
The potential future pleasures that he might have enjoyed.
Now pay attention that what's bad about killing is by definition the future potential of things that you could have enjoyed that's being robbed from you.
This means that there is no importance to how much you are mentally capable of understanding what's going on at the moment that you are being killed.
This is why it is not okay to kill babies even though they don't really have a grasp or really have developed any sort of interests.
So it is the mere fact that you could have lived on and had a life full of pleasures and utility that makes killing so bad.
And this is something that embryos in all stages of pregnancy most certainly have.
So when it comes down to it what we have here is a case in which we have to get like a huge amount of stem cells from many many many embryos in order to maybe eventually be able to say something that like will provide us a really really small delta in advancement towards understanding something about a disease.
We say that at the point at which we understand that embryos are creatures with the right to life, this is just not worth it and the harm outweighs the good.
Please oppose.