We should protect the antarctic continent.
It is a miracle that we've been able to preserve, up until now, an entire continent that human beings have yet been able to destroy, either with battles between countries over resources or with drilling and mining for commercial or industrial purposes.
Antarctica is an island of sanity, and we must make sure that it remains this way.
We're going to have one big argument in this speech and it is about the ever-present threat of escalation.
So as stated in the info slide, as of now it is not exactly certain just how affluent antarctica is with natural resources.
This means that there's basically two options.
Either it is mostly just ice, in which case, you know, it's a shame to even try, and it's best just to keep antarctica as it is in the status quo, or that there's more than meets the eye there, and antarctica is rich with resources that can be used for commercial purposes or industrial purposes, and the truth is that this possibility is much more disturbing.
Why?
Because resources are, you know, the type of things that countries tend to covet, and they are one of the major causes, if not the major cause, for the outbreak of international conflicts.
The current situation in antarctica, where there is a peaceful equilibrium without any passionate territorial claims to either party, is rather unique, and it stems from the big vagueness surrounding this continent and the question of just how wealthy it is.
Seeing as no one knows for sure what can be found there, and seeing as there is an a genuine chance that the answer is, " not too much ", like there's not a lot to be found, then it just doesn't pay off to any country to take the risk of breaking the existing international treaties and agreements.
That is because countries are often risk-averse.
However, the very moment that the current limitations are going to be lifted, and assuming it will be like assuming it will turn out that antarctica does have a lot to offer in terms of resources, then no new international global agreement would be able to guarantee the same amount of peaceful conduct because the effect of the uncertainty has been lifted and so, it's going to be to become a lot more tempting for countries to break those understandings and to make a move for it.
All of this is especially true in the current reality in the global sphere in which we are witnessing a slow shift in power and a transition from a unipolar system to a bipolar system, that is the gradual rise of russia and china as global superpowers that challenge the western hegemony.
Such periods are especially known as very sensitive and very flammable, because the different actors are not sure whether their allegiance should lie with the old power or with the new power, and so each superpower promotes like takes action in order to gain more power and more support.
Bottom line: opening up the treaty on antarctica might lead to an inevitable process of escalation between countries that will result in a conflict.
That is bad not just for antarctica, but for everybody.
So please propose.