So we're going to have two arguments: first, on the right of the state to intervene in education and second, on what's going to be the likely outcome of implementing the school voucher system.
Before we'll get to these arguments, less let's address and rebut the two arguments made by side government.
So, first, they speak about the maximization of choice, right?
Like the status quo limits the choice of the parents to which kind of education they want to send their children off to, and it's not an interest of the states if I want to send my child to a catholic school.
We are going to engage directly with this point in our first argument.
The next thing that they say is that schools are going to become more diverse than in the status quo.
They tell us that people choose to live with their group of equals and , only by implementing the voucher system, we're going to get more integration of children from different social groups, and this will increase empathy from a young age and and , you know, we really don't think that this is going to be the likely outcome of this move, and we're going to explain why in the second argument.
So, most of the rebuttal is going to be inside the arguments.
Let's move on to the constructive.
First, on the right of the state to intervene in education.
So we think that the education system is a very unique institute in the sense that this is the only period of time in which everyone, like all the citizens in a in a certain age and in we're even talking about future citizens, which is even more important, get to sit for a few hours every day in the same sort of framework and get to listen to pretty much the same content.
There is no other stage in life where this happens.
This means that this is a one-time opportunity for the state to pass on and to form a collective mutual ground, a shared narrative in a sense.
The state treats the education system, sorry, side government treats the education system as if the only function that it comes to serve is things like algebra or geometry, you know, giving you tools to succeed in your future.
We think that it's it goes way beyond that.
Rather, you know, classes like history history classes and literature and and citizenship, we think these are the most important classes because they create the shared basis of collective knowledge, the normative system, which is the core foundation of society.
Without having this shared basis that creates a mutual language between citizens of different groups in society, we are going to have a society that's devastatingly divided, with no way of bridging those gaps.
Zero social cohesion.
This has very high costs, both politically speaking, economically speaking, even even security-wise.
So, this is why the state has a great deal of interest in education, and as long as the state is the one that funds education, which is something that the voucher system insist on preserving, it seems fairly obvious to us that it also has the right to set the tone and to decide on the content that is being passed on to the future generation.
Now, note, that this is in direct engagement to the first argument of the side of side government, and in order to explain why we think this ability of the state disappears once we adopt the voucher system, let's move on to the second argument: what's what would likely happen?
So we think that this semi-privatization is going to create a competition between schools that is going to be based mainly on content and material of the study program.
This is the only way in which schools can really distinguish themselves from other schools.
This means that the focus on history lessons or religious lessons or citizenship classes are going to be very different from one another which will create, in all likelihood, the further alienation of different groups in society.
Why?
Because, like james himself explained to us, people tend to favor their equal group.
So if they're catholic, they will send their children off to catholic schools, which will teach one story.
In protestant schools, the children are going to be taught a different story.
In muslim schools, a third story, in jewish schools, a fourth story, latin schools, fifth story, in afro-american schools, a sixth story.
This is exactly the opposite of the the diversity that side government speaks about.
This is the end of the american story as we know it.
So for all these reasons, please oppose.