I'm going to start by addressing the three points made by the previous speaker and then move on to discuss the harms in polygamy.
So first we hear that banning polygamy is is like a religious discrimination.
We hear that the the main reason originally for this ban is the church and how wrong it is for the state to create laws that are based on a certain dominant religion.
Unfortunately this entire point is just off clash because we agree.
We agree that religious norms are not a legitimate source for creating laws.
We would simply argued that there are other very good reasons that concern protecting our citizens from harm and from abuse.
Note that we don't have and we shouldn't have any problems with laws that go out against customs of certain religions if we think that this that we are that we are dealing with unreasonable norms that create a lot of harm.
For instance we ban female mutilation and we don't care if there are people whose religion dictates this.
Then we hear that this is a victimless crime.
Why?
Because you testified you testified before a judge that you weren't coerced.
So this shows that you weren't coerced.
We think that this is a very naive argument and literally all of our positive material engages directly with this notion.
And then we hear that this is unenforceable.
There's no way to prevent people from living in polygamous households.
Now this might be true but the problem with this argument is that it fails to recognize the power that laws have in shaping the reality, in shaping people's consensus.
While it might be true that there are some people today that that have polygamous relationships, once this will be officially legal there are going to be a lot more of those.
Because this lifestyle now is granted with the official stamp of the state and of the constitution.
And this means something to people.
So like insofar as we are going to show that this is a harmful phenomenon, we can live with this still happening at the margins of society, but we would not like to encourage more of it.
So finally, what are the harms in polygamy?
We think it's cute that james defines this as something ultra liberal like you could have a woman with several husbands or same sex polygamy households, but realistically ninety nine percent of the cases we are talking about a model of a man living with several wives.
We are talking about the muslim population and perhaps the mormon population even though we think that this is less relevant today.
In israel for instance we're talking about the bedouin population and in these cases it's not exactly it doesn't match the liberal picture that james tries to paint.
By like of a group of women that fall in love with this guy or that had like that had any right to choose their husbands and they give their full consent willingly and happily.
We are often like on in most occasions we're talking about wives that were matched, without anyone asking their opinions, to a husband.
We are very often talking about very old men taking a new wife every every couple of years.
A young wife that has become the like in the legal age and these wives usually stay at home and serve at their husbands pleasure.
We think that this structure of a family isn't proper and shouldn't be acceptable.
It oppresses women.
That's it like these wives that will now have to compete with the other wives over their husbands resources or attention or whatever.
It harms the children that will be brought up in a very complicated dynamic and it harms the status of women in society as a whole and entrenches this notion of women that are meant to serve their husband.
So for all of these reasons we think that there is significant harm here and this ban is justified.