Okay so side government tells us that there's going to be resentment from the side of the parents if the if their child isn't born to the right sex specifically against girls, right?
So two answers here.
A, in most cases we are talking about highly traditional societies that have those kinds of people like devout muslims and so on.
So we think these are not populations that are very likely to be using the tool of sex selection anyway because like even if it's legal they just don't believe that they can intervene in god's intentions just like abortions, right?
So a lot of the problems that james describes aren't going to go away.
B, what james' is logic says is that once this will be allowed there are going to be communities in which it is very likely that most people will choose to only have boys.
He tries to preempt that point but will explain as the speech goes on why we're not convinced and what are the damages that we foresee as a result.
Then he talks about infanticide.
Now we're not sure how much this custom still like a common thing nowadays but if it is we say that this is horrible and we must treat it by eradicating the root of the problem through education and getting rid of the superstition that prefers baby boys to baby to baby girls.
In general we think that the entire case that comes from side government largely says that it's best to circumvent a problem rather than solve it.
James himself says that the fact that huge chunks of society still believe that boys are a blessing and girls are a curse is a terrible unwanted thing, but his like entire case just deals with preventing short term damages.
We think that that is the definition of giving up and letting the bad guys win.
We say that when there is an unwanted phenomenon it is our job to make it go away and not surrender to it.
Secondly, he says that it's an unjustified intervention of the government in parents' decision.
Come on, parents cannot decide whatever they want.
We force you to send your child to school.
We do not allow you to beat him up as part of your parental education technique.
We say that once we think that there is some sort of benefit to society or a harm that can be prevented then we have no problem with limiting the choice of parents.
Two points on the constructive.
First, what are going to be the outcomes of breaking the balance between male and female?
So james tries to preempt this point by saying that already today parents abort girls and look there's no apocalypse.
Well first of all obviously there's not going to be an apocalypse but that doesn't mean that there are not no concrete damages to society.
Secondly we just don't think that it's true that whoever is going to use this tool aborts today anyway.
Abortion is something very difficult and scary and far less accessible than the this tool of sex selection.
James himself admits that today there are many couples who raise girls and didn't abort them but just feel resentment towards them somehow.
So we think that this is something that's going to get worse and there are going to be far more men than women, and we do not have to show you that there's going to be chaos in the street in order to understand it if like a certain age group has much more boys than girls then this might have very negative effects on on society.
We we we say that such effects might be increased competition between men over women which will a, cause many men to stay lonely and not find a mate, but b, it can also make men much more aggressive towards women.
Try for instance just to take a hen house and put three male roosters on each hen and see what happens.
Second argument is why we think that women are going to be even more mistreated eh,after this is this is legalized.
We think that one of the best ways for us to to succeed in changing patriarchal perceptions among men is like the second that these men have a baby girl, we say that even if at first they are going to be resentful, we think that most people, no matter how traditional and conservative they are, love their children.
That's just human nature.
We say that if your entire life you have thought that men matter more, and are smarter, and are better, than society simply has no better way of trying to convince you otherwise then rather than letting you be a father to a baby girl that's going to matter to you more than anything else in the world.
We do not want to allow men to avoid this and to let this opportunity be wasted.
So for all these reasons we are very proud to opposed to this motion.