Arguing that the fire in grenfell tower proves that tower blocks, as a whole, need to be banned is just about as crazy as arguing that because of the tragedy of the malaysian airplane that we need to, you know, ban commercial flying as a whole.
The first thing that we hear from sam is about how the cheap construction and the poor upkeep of these towers turns them into dangerous buildings.
But this is an incredibly weird argument because, I mean, that's exactly what safety regulations are meant for.
The tragedy in grenfell tower happened because there were several breaches of regulations, and no one bothered to do anything about it.
All that is needed is simply to enforce these regulations.
I'm sorry, I couldn't understand what was the problem in installing proper fire escapes.
In addition, if we take the logic of the previous speaker and assume that regulation cannot help because, you know, these are buildings designated for lower class residents, and there is no incentive to adhere to the high standards of materials and so on, so this proposition, if all of that is true, isn't going to solve anything, because even if instead of tower blocks we would just have normal apartment buildings that are also designated for lower income income families, they will suffer the same deficiencies.
So even if they are right in describing the problem, they are just simply not solving it in any way.
But then sam continues to say that society is to blame for the poor being poor, and therefore we have an obligation towards them.
First, pay attention that this argument is completely off-clash in this debate.
The government has an obligation to protect its citizens safety whether they are rich or poor.
And indeed, they do so by, you know, enacting safety regulations and enforcing them.
And I'm going to show that without tower blocks, the housing market, in so many areas, is going to become that much more expensive and that much harder for poor people to find a rooftop to live under.
So, if it is indeed our obligation to take care of these people, side government in this debate are doing the exact opposite.
The next thing that they say is that tower blocks create density in city centers, leading to bottlenecks in accessing public resources and public services.
Now, this is a stronger claim, but here are the problems with it.
A: we haven't heard any good reason as to why we cannot simply increase the amount of public services and resources in those areas so that they, you know, meet the demand.
But secondly, we say that the urbanization trend isn't going to disappear after we get rid of high-rise buildings.
People flock to city centers because that the like this is where the city, this, sorry, this is where the business centers are.
This is where the commercial centers are.
There's jobs there.
There is culture and art and nightlife.
Therefore, demand for living in metropolitan cities is pretty much rigid, and so this problem isn't going to be fixed.
The only way to stop this is by offering compelling alternatives in different places, and there is no good reason for us not to build tower blocks outside of of the main cities as well, and develop the infrastructure and the services around it so that we don't have this overload in one particular area.
Lastly, we hear about the broken windows theory and how tower blocks endorse more crime.
Well, this exists in both worlds.
Sam fails at in like he fails to explain to us how, as soon as his proposition passes, all of the poor can suddenly find themselves living in fancy luxurious neighborhoods.
This argument is completely off-clash.
So unfortunately, we didn't hear any one good reason why inherently there is something bad about tower blocks that cannot be fixed by anything other than blanket policy banning them.
So the we say something very simple: the reason that tower blocks are essential is because they are the most efficient efficient way to allow for affordable housing for working class people in city centers.
If the government really do does believe that we have an obligation to help these lower income people, then it's impossible for us to demand from them to be living in the suburbs, where there are no jobs and like no access to all of the human capital, social capital, cultural capital, that the city has to offer.
Please oppose this motion.