We should ban boxing.
When a bunch of rich white men sit down and watch for their personal amusement, two men, probably of color, in a ring, beat each other up until one of them can no longer stand up.
This is, by all accounts, nothing short of a modern day coliseum.
And there's no more room for such things in the twenty first century.
I have two points in this speech: one, the tracking of black youth to become boxers, and two, what's so wrong about that.
So first arguments: an amazing percentage of boxers come from minority populations and specifically the black community.
Suburban neighborhoods are filled with boxing gyms.
This is no accident.
This happens for a simple reason.
Wealthy parents will probably never allow their child to go and train or compete in a sport that's considered so dangerous.
Where he might get beat up.
They'll make sure their child spends his time doing something more expensive but that is more safe.
But for children from lower class families that live in ghettos where the parents work around the clock and don't have the time or money to send their children to the best outdoor activity out there, boxing can be a very tempting option.
For one thing, it's relatively cheaper to exercise in a boxing gym, but moreover it allows these children to, a, take out aggressions that they've developed because they're because of their poor life circumstances, and b, it sells them a dream that this is their ticket out.
That like their way to become famous and rich.
With role models such as mike tyson and floyd mayweather these children believe that this is what they should put their time and effort into and not their education or other things.
Why is that so problematic?
Hey it worked for mike tyson, right?
Well here here's the problem: firstly, this is a very dangerous sport.
Obviously a few succeeded but many boxers get injured in the process and don't get to succeed.
Now these can be short term injuries or long term brain damages from all of the beatings to your skull and so on.
B, it makes it a lot harder for this youth to be integrated into higher classes of society in other places because when you occasionally show up with your face all smashed in, then you might get kicked out of school or you probably won't be able to find a respectable job.
So boxing can interfere with the very few serious opportunities that these children might have.
But perhaps the worst of all is c, the tickets to the boxing venues are very expensive.
This means that the audience that comes in and watches the these these events are usually rich men.
Now what separates boxing from other sports like basketball or even football, which are also very physical sports, is that it in boxing it's all about beating each other up.
It's all about literally knocking the other guy out.
There is no ball that needs to go anywhere, just two men beating the living shit out of each other.
We think that there's something very humiliating about being in a ring and fighting another guy to the cheering of the crowd.
It doesn't matter how much money you make.
This harms your personal dignity.
We should never be amused by two people beating each other up.
And what's worse, this has a negative effect on the black community as a whole.
Just like we consider prostitution to be something that's degrading to women all over, we think that the mere concept of having black gladiators today is detrimental for the black community's struggle for equal status.
We beg you to propose.