Let's see what we get from side government.
So, the first thing they mention is that there is a threat to third parties because if I don't take good care of myself, I might be infectious and be dangerous to other people.
We would ask whether they are in favor of forcing sick people to undergo treatment under the same logic.
And if their answer is yes, then we would ask in this case why do we need to also ban alternative medicine, and not simply allow people that anyway have to go through conventional treatments to to choose to also take alternative medicine if they believe this helps them?
These are not two things that are mutually exclusive.
Why not have both?
Then they go on to say that there is a matter of an asymmetric information.
They claim that the that the companies that manufacture these products know that their product isn't working and are lying to the innocent consumer and therefore, the state needs to step in and defend him.
So, the first answer that we have is that we don't agree that the that the companies are necessarily lying.
We think that it's certainly possible that they full-heartedly believe in their product, and they don't mind the fact that they can't prove this scientifically, because some people are skeptic towards this whole thing that's called science and the very basic premises of the modern the science so this simply doesn't mean a lot to them.
There are a lot of such of people like this, this is not uncommon.
Secondly, we say that the state already intervenes quite sufficiently when it provides regulation as to what can be called ordinary medicine and what can't be called that.
So, by the very fact that these products are branded as alternative medicine, and not simply medicine, we are signaling to the consumers exactly what it is that they're buying.
Beyond this point, we say that the consumer is a big boy.
He can make decisions on his own, and he's responsible for whatever he's getting.
The last thing that we'd say on this regard is that in the exact same way we can only warn you that cigarettes are harmful to you or that coca cola is isn't healthy to you, and we can write down exactly how much sugar is in there, but we're not going to prevent you from purchasing it.
And then we hear that this is going to stop poaching that's used for alternative medicine, so we think that this point is a real stretch but, like, especially in light of the fact that all of the alternative medicine that's legally sold today don't contain these these ingredients that are prohibited.
So, essentially what they're offering is to ban certain products that are made out of plants and didn't harm any animals for concern for animal welfare, but they don't have a problem if you go and buy a steak one second after that.
That's weird to us.
So the only thing that we would like to add to all of this is this: by all means, we think that like if we think that this is all just mumbo jumbo, then we can educate the public to be skeptical towards it.
We've even agreed that we can force people who are sick to undergo conventional treatment, but this still doesn't justify preventing people from seeking other alternatives, especially not when their health is at stake.
We believe that people have the right and the autonomy to choose to believe whatever it is that they believe, just like religious people can choose to go and pray if they are ill or to go and make a confession because they believe that god will help them.
Please notice that according to the entire logic of side government, they are essentially saying that we mustn't allow religious people to reach out to their priests or to pray, because this would like probably wouldn't do them a lot of good in a proven manner.
So, we say that it's just the same here, and we're very proud to oppose.