We should abandon television.
First argument: TV gets us addicted to immediate satisfaction.
The revolutionary thing that came with television is the concept of immediate reward.
In almost any other hobby that pops to mind, you're required to invest time and effort in order to get satisfied.
Think about sports, about playing an instrument, reading books, debating, for instance.
All of these things commit you to long hours, and most times even a physical effort or a cognitive effort, in order to gradually get better and reach a high enough level that will allow you true gratification.
We believe that this is a positive thing, because it instills in us a certain work ethic.
It incentivizes us to work hard and by doing so, developing ourselves, and eventually, this is how we're able to succeed in other challenges in life, in our education, in our career, etcetera.
Television only requires that we sit and stare at the screen.
It promises us immediate and ongoing sensory stimulation, without having to do anything.
Now, seeing as people are lazy creatures that always tend to opt for shortcuts to satisfaction, they can get used to this incredibly quickly.
We get addicted to TV and forgo other activities that are more challenging.
It's one thing when, like, cinema was invented, and it was only a once in every couple of weeks night out.
But when TV entered every living room, it allowed for entire generations to spend hours a day glued to the screen.
We believe this has become a true social tragedy.
If you will, we think this can be equated to a global addiction to masturbation on a massive scale.
Opposition might say that they don't see the problem in that, since all we're doing is eventually letting people get what they want and be happy, so so what if it's immediate and not hard-earned.
So we would like to ask opposition whether whether they would be willing to live in a world in which everyone spend their entire lives wired to virtual reality machines that just give them infinite utility.
This is a world where everyone is easily satisfied but have no independence, no freedom, no self-actualization.
And, in our opinion, this is a very sad world indeed.
Second argument: why contents that is utter trash prevails over high quality content.
So, of course, we would agree that TV also brings good things to the world, but all that depends on the assumption that there is also serious high quality content on there.
We believe that in today's world, such content is an endangered species that might soon disappear.
We can see how with every passing generation, the air time is getting filled with more and more reality TV shows and other sorts of trash that's both stupid and stupefying, while good, high quality TV shows get scarcer.
This happens for the simple reason that the commercial TV channels are incentivized to maximize ratings, and seeing as people, as we've already mentioned, are looking for immediate pleasures, without having to overthink stuff, then it's shows like the jersey shore and the bachelor that are winning the fight over the minds of the viewers.
We believe that this is an inevitable process that's only going to grow more extreme with each generation.
Therefore, we think that all of the good things that come from television will gradually fade away and vanish.
Please propose the motion.