First things first we have to make something abundantly clear because the prime minister for some reason didn't openly say it.
A subsidy is a financial support that comes from the state, not from the community or front society.
Now we treat journalism as the guard dog of democracy.
If that is true then how is allowing the government to fund journalism not completely equal to allowing the cat to guard the cream?
We're not arguing that journalism is important.
Unfortunately the entire analysis that we hear from the prime minister in his first point is just not in contention.
We also agree that the new age poses some financial difficulties for journalism in order to survive, but we think that we have to exhaust any other solution in any other every other option that we have in order to solve this problem but for allowing the country to be the one that finds journalism.
We can for instance establish public broadcasting institutions that are directly funded by the public.
We can let people have some sort of like vouchers in order to buy newspapers of their choice.
We can do a number of things that doesn't effectively mean passing the control over the funding of the news to the very people that these news are supposed to investigate and to cover.
The case that comes from side government is very peculiar.
Basically they say that when people are consuming journalism, like free journalism, then there is no proper reward for the journalists, and this harms their ability to maintain a high level of quality enough investigative journalism.
Firstly, we say that that's just not an accurate description of what happens in the status quo because there are today after the transition to online news other ways of finding news outlets mainly through commercials and advertising, and it is completely unclear to us that the investigate the level of investigative journalism today is is in anything less good than it used to be.
Secondly, we say again that we're not opposing solutions that will force consumers to pay more for their articles, but this just doesn't answer the burden of side government to explain why specifically government subsidy is the right solution here, and thirdly, and that's the main point of contention that we have, we say that it's exactly because of the importance of journalism as a check on politicians, as tim himself analyzes, we mustn't allow this these same politicians be the one that control the budget off the newspapers.
We tell you that money always comes with strings.
Government subsidy to to journalism effectively means that it is the government that decides exactly which newspapers are getting funded and which aren't, and what exactly is going to be like how high this the subsidy is going to be.
We didn't hear any type of model or mechanism from side government that explains exactly how this allocation of subsidies is going to look like, and why they think that it's going to be made objective.
At this point it's very easy to imagine the phone call the phone call between the minister of communications and the editor of a newspaper where the minister implicitly or explicitly threatens to withhold the support for that newspaper if the media coverage for him or for the government isn't going to be more favorable, and the editor doesn't really have a choice.
We tell you, furthermore, that there is always some sort of agenda to each newspaper and it's hard to really talk about absolute objectivity, but thanks to the fact that there is a competition between different news sources with different agendas, eventually, in the status quo, we have representation for a wide range of opinions, whether if they like both ones that supports the regime and that oppose it, but in a world where only newspapers that support the current government are getting funded by the state.
The rest of the newspapers just don't have the tools to compete with them and it's likely that they will have to be shut down, which means that we will only get coverage of one side and that is of course something that side government themselves in this debate are very fearful of.
So eventually, by the very metrics and very goals that they themselves set in this debate, opposition wins.