Right, so, in general, I think that all that we've heard from side government's previous speech were arguments that answer the question of would it be better for everyone to get to get tested or should we endorse couples to undergo these treatments, but we haven't heard any argument that truly answers the real burden in this debate, and that is: why is it okay for the state to force couples that really, really don't want to to undergo this invasive and intrusive process and while doing so, why is it okay to, you know, violate the sacred principle of a woman's autonomy over her own body?
So the first argument that we hear from the previous speaker is that we need to allow maximum amount of information for doctors.
The doctors are the one that take decisions based on the information that they have, so we ought to step in and make sure that they have the entire picture figured out so that they can better consult patients.
But this is a really, really strange argument, at least from the way that james constructed it, because it sounds as if it is not, you know, the baby's best interest that side government is concerned about.
What they are concerned about is that doctors won't be able to offer the best advice.
Well, this logic never caught on anywhere.
I mean if I would have done a blood test every three months or so, then my family doctor would have been would have had, you know, the most accurate information.
He would have been able to give me great advice.
But that doesn't mean that because of this, the state can force me to undergo blood tests every three months.
Truly a weird argument.
Then, they move on to talk about how this allows us to trace babies that it would have been best if they wouldn't have been born and we can abort them ahead of time.
But the thing is that we think that this benefit is almost nonexistent in this debate.
Why?
Because the parents that are truly resisting and don't want to undergo prenatal examinations and the parents that because of them, side government want to force everyone to do it, are almost exclusively people of faith, and they refuse these tests for religious reasons.
And this means that even if we force them to undergo these examinations, and even if we find out that there's some horrible defect in the fetus, it is highly unlikely that they will ever agree to go through with an abortion.
So unless james also plans to force these parents to undergo abortions, which is horrible, we didn't spare any suffering or any harm.
We just added another harm completely, like for no good reason, the harm of the parents that now needs need to feel that the state has forced them to sin against their beliefs.
Lastly, james tells us that this pays off financially.
This will save a lot of money for the state that will let could have gone on like treating problems that we could have prevented.
So, again, we challenge this benefit.
We think that the majority of people today go and have ultrasound exams anyway and we can always, you know, consult, and we can always endorse more couples to do it.
But the couples that really choose not to, do it for a particular reason, and it's unlikely that they will agree to any sorts of artificial medical interventions down the line of the pregnancy anyway.
So, to conclude, yes, it would have been better if as many people as possible would have gone through prenatal examinations, but we absolutely mustn't force force it upon them against their will.
Why?
Because for religious people, forcing them to do this is forcing them to break what they consider to be the will of god and to many, this is an unbearable thought.
Now, close your eyes for a minute and imagine a situation in which a woman is being forced to undergo an ultrasound exam against her will, as she is fighting to get free.
This is a horrible picture.
Now, I don't know what you do in that type of situation, but every solution that I that comes to mind seems equally unacceptable.
You guys must oppose.