Atheism is the only way.
Now, of course, there are other ways, so we understand this debate to mean that atheism is the only rational way.
Three points in this speech: a, on how faiths and religions answer basic human needs, which make it make it logical to assume they're just a human invention.
B, on scientific discoveries that directly contradict the traditional big religions.
And c, what is the rational way to deal with questions to which we do not know the answer?
First argument: so since ancient times, in order to cope with the fact that there are things that we cannot explain, people made up different stories that try to make sense of everything.
Thousands of years ago people didn't have tools to explain phenomena like day and night, how old is the earth, etcetera.
So they developed theories that made sense to them back then about deities with supernatural powers, and with no alternative explanation, it was very tempting to believe such stories, because just it's much better than remaining clueless as to what's going on.
Another reason why a deity is such a successful theory is that it provides comfort.
It's comforting to know that everything is part of a bigger plan and bad things that happen to you aren't entirely random and are not necessarily your fault, or the the idea of someone almighty that's watching over you.
Another important reason for the development of religions is the need to create social order and a source of legitimacy for moral or social rules that we want to impose upon society.
The ten commandments, for example, are a perfect example of an attempt to create a political foundation for a functioning society.
In every culture the stories and the rules are a little bit different, but there are very similar elements that we can recognize in all of them, like the notion of a chosen people because way back then, leaders understood that in order for people to follow the rules, they need to feel special somehow.
There's also the idea of rewards and punishments.
The deity's watching everything you do and if you misbehave, you'll be severely punished.
This is, of course, a way to maintain control over people.
So, we see that there are many basic human needs and strategic political needs that religions answer for, and this implies that we're dealing with nothing more than a human invention.
Second argument: there are several theories that are widely accepted by the scientific community that can be used as evidence against what religions are saying.
The theory of evolution shows that there's nothing special about the human species, and we weren't created in god's image.
The big bang theory shows that the earth wasn't created in seven days like the bible says, and it's fairly obvious that the earth is more than a few thousand years old, as religions would have us believe.
Just like people wholeheartedly believed that the earth is flat or that the sun revolves around the earth until scientists came and proved otherwise, it would be completely irrational to stick to those beliefs today.
But if we don't only want to talk about religions and we also want to talk about the abstract concept of belief in a deity, and compare atheism to agnosticism or to faith, then the key question is basically: what is the rational approach to deal with questions to which we don't know the answer?
Now a believer will say, " you just have to believe. "
But this is, of course, circular logic at its best.
You simply believe what you're being told to believe, and it's totally random.
There's absolutely no good reason to believe what you're believing in.
A more interesting approach is the agnostic one, but the problem with this approach is that it's basically giving up.
It it's they say: okay, there's something I don't know.
Therefore, by definition, I can't ever possibly know this is a logical leap and so, I just avoid the question.
So this is not a rational approach.
Atheists, on the other hand, say: okay, there are things I still don't know, but we're gonna keep checking because the answer is out there and we'll find it out eventually.
We owe this approach pretty much all of the major breakthroughs and discoveries that our species has ever made.
So, for all of these reasons, we say that atheism is the only rational way.