We should abolish standardized tests.
By this, we mean tests like the SATs or the GRE, for example, that are being used in the status quo as platforms for the filtering of applicants to institutions of higher education.
We are going to argue that standardized tests are inherently inefficient in predicting the compatibility or the success of the students and that they are biased against minorities and students that come from low-income families.
What we are going to offer as an alternative is a system in which all students are automatically applied to the first year of their studies, and then by the end of that year, there is going to be a natural filtering based on academic achievements.
So, first argument about the inefficiency of these tests.
So there are a few reasons for why these tests are simply not a precise tool, that both leaves out good, qualified students and brings in less-qualified students.
So one: by definition, since this needs to be a standardized test, it has to be very general and unspecific to a certain field of of, like, education or studying.
So, it's very possible that there's almost nothing in common between the actual skills that I'll be required to demonstrate during the course of my studies and the skills that I'm required to demonstrate in order to successfully pass these tests.
Two: eventually, this is one test that's meant to testify as to my as to people's like learning abilities, and one example is never exactly a good representative sample.
Maybe I was tired that day, maybe I was sick, maybe I was hungry, maybe a million and one other things that could have adverse effect on my score.
Three: moreover, we say that since this is just one test that is so important and has such a huge impact on my future and so much depends on my ability to focus and concentrate and do well in these couple of hours, then the threshold of pressure significantly rises.
To many people that can't, you know, don't know how to cope with that pressure, this could really create problems, like blackouts, and like could really affect, for the worst, their ability to pass this test successfully.
Four: we say that there is a, like an entire industry of preparation courses for these exams, which means that whoever had enough time and money to invest in his preparation can end up like achieving a higher score, and this has nothing to do with your actual skill set or abilities.
This leads me to my next point, the unfairness of these tests.
So, it is a fact that minority populations, people of color or students that come from low-income families, are statistically ranked lower than most of than like majority populations in these tests.
And we think that this stems also from the fourth reason that we mentioned earlier, but also like, you know, because they aren't able to enjoy the privilege of of taking the best preparation course, but also from more structural reasons.
For example, the standardized language makes it much harder for whoever comes from a family of immigrants or whoever grew up with a low register, you know, as a result from where he was up brought, meaning he has a less rich vocabulary and so on.
These are things that could be made up for with hard work during the course of your education, but it's very hard to overcome them for the test itself.
Now, this creates a situation in which the people the very people that need higher education most of all in order to break the glass ceiling, to step out of the cycle of poverty, are less able to reach there in the first place, and this is unfair.
We think that the alternative that we offer takes care of all of these problems that I listed above.
And even if the other if the other side will will find that it has some problems, they will have to show you why these problems are more severe than the lack of like efficiency and the lack of fairness that are inherent to standardized tests.
Very happy to propose.