There are at least two different ways in which side government is trying to fool us into supporting their side.
The first way is by mischaracterizing how slum tourism actually looks like.
They make it sound as if it's only about people that you know hop by for a short visit of an hour or two in the favela, take some pictures, and at best spend a bit of money in the local restaurant and then go back to sleep in their fancy hotel in the city center.
But this is very different to the reality of what slum tourism actually looks like.
The truth is that when we talk about slum tourism we talk many times about people that plan full trips to impoverished neighborhoods in which they sleep at the local guest house, eat only local food, and in general try to absorb this full experience of what it's like to live in these places.
That is the concept of slum tourism.
Now that is important because this more accurate description shows us that the government is wrong in saying that the like the the economic good things that come to these places from slump tourism is negligible.
This also counters their claim on how there is no trickle down effect here since this entire phenomenon of slum tourism like the more it gets popular and the more tourists come, this means that more money is coming in and you'd have to open more guest house and new restaurants and this means that we can like hire more people and so on.
These are just the most basic and simple laws of economics.
So the second way that they try to trick us is by conveniently forgetting or just failing or not bothering to mention or to talk about the comparative.
They offer us no alternative for these neighborhoods.
They talk a lot a lot about how slum tourism creates a national incentive to keep these neighborhoods poor and therefore it delays their development but what development are they talking about exactly?
In their world, no one from the outside bothers go like bothers to go there.
No one is being exposed to their situation.
The government most certainly does don't have any special incentive to change their conditions.
These people are not a political threat in any way.
No sane businessmen would ever dream of investing there.
So what government side is actually offering here is to simply forget all about these people's existence.
So we think that the questions in this debate is where is there a bigger chance to improve the conditions of people living in the favelas or in like poverty stricken neighborhoods even by a little bit?
So we've already explained why the money that's coming in directly from tourism is meaningful and does bring to a small improvement in the conditions and we already see that this is better for than anything that government side has to offer but we say more than this, we think that the exposure that slum tourism creates allows for a bigger change in the long run because it's only by personally seeing poverty with your own eyes that we can penetrate the walls of indifference of people that live in the west.
What I haven't experienced for myself no matter how much I read about it in the newspapers or see you know videos about it on my news feed, I will not go the extra mile and will not make the extra step of actually you know donating money or actually going and volunteering or thinking how can I help.
We don't expect in every tourist that come that that's coming there to actually do something.
It's enough that one out of a thousand will come back home and tell his his rich friends and will bring them over to see for their own eyes and that they together will think of how they can do some good there.
This is how little by little you create change.
So for all of these reasons please supports slum tourism and oppose the motion.