So to clarify where we stand in this debate, we're not in favor of the complete annihilation of all forests, but we do believe that enforcing one universal standardized, you know, form of limitations or regulations on how much trees can be cut down brings more harm than good, because it's inefficient and it doesn't bring into consideration additional interests that we think are just as important as , you know, keeping the forests safe.
Before we begin, let's address the arguments made by side government.
So the first thing they tell us is on how the damage is irreversible, and deforestation leads to many damages to the environment, like extinct species.
Well, first of all, we think that as far as the human ability and knowledge and the technology evolves, there certainly might be damages that will become reversible.
Even extinction of species might be reversible in the future with the right technology.
But like on top of that, even if it's it won't be possible, we're sorry, but it's just unclear to us why this matters so much.
Species get extinct all the time because of other species that are stronger than them.
Humans didn't make this stuff up, it's a natural thing.
It is unclear exactly what species are side government so afraid for, and what's the big harm from them going extinct.
Next they talk about how there are also people and communities that depend on on the forests for their livelihood, and they get hurt from deforestation, like loggers and what not.
And this is probably true, but pay attention this is no longer irreversible, they could always find a different job elsewhere, and secondly we say that we have to weigh this harm against the other people whose whose job actually depends on cutting down the trees.
Once we enforce strict rules of forest management, this will also cost us jobs of people that work in like construction and whatever that depend on this, so we have to weigh between different this conflicting interests and yeah that's it.
And lastly, they talk about how future generations have an equal right to enjoy the forests.
While we disagree, we don't acknowledge the rights of people that weren't yet born.
Rights only exists where there are interests.
And where there are no such interests, there are no rights.
This is why we allow ourselves to perform abortions, for instance.
Besides, we think that it's far more important to take care of like future generations in brazil having enough places to live, like enough residential areas, than taking care of them being able to enjoy more forests.
On the constructive, we say the following thing.
Sustainable forest management is an evolving process, and and like the way in which it is most efficient to do so is based on the the latest scientific knowledge and our best understanding of the forests' ecosystem, which is very complicated and influenced by numerous external factors.
And we say, similarly, that each place has different context, difference like specific ecological and environmental conditions, different social and economic like factors, different political factors, different cultural factors.
These all have to be taken into consideration, and we have to look at each place individually and see like when would deforestation is really necessary, and where it where it isn't.
Therefore it's just unwise and inefficient to adopt one standardized forest management solution.
This brings more harm than good.