We should limit the rights of self defense.
When george zimmerman gets away scotch free with deadly gunning down unarmed seventeen year old trayvon martin by pleading self defense, and the jury has literally almost no choice but to acquit him, then we have a serious problem.
This right to self defense is obviously important.
Perhaps one of the only rights that we can truly call a natural, unalienable right that exists also in the state of nature and so on.
However, at the point at which bad people abuse this right in order to get a get out of jail free card, we need to make sure that the legal system has an ability to prevent this from happening.
What we mean by limiting the right of self defense is specifically repealing the state your ground law which expands the concept of self defense and is adopted in many states.
This law justifies the use of deadly force, without retreating, in order to defend yourself from a threat in places where you have a right to be.
So, like essentially repealing it means that, with the exception of your own home, if you're in a public area and someone threatens to use force against you, before you can respond in kind you need to seek a way to retreat first.
This is in fact what helped zimmerman get acquitted, this state your ground law.
The main problem that we have with the right of self defense is that although it only justifies reasonable uses of force, obviously, it can be incredibly tricky to determine, after the fact, when such use was in fact necessary or reasonable.
Starting from the fact that in many many scenarios the only other possible witness to testify to the reasonability of using that force is the very person that got killed as a result.
And like even when there are evidence that points to the use of force not being necessary, that's actually not the burden on the defendant and he can still get an acquittal because all the defendant needs to prove for the reasonability demand to be satisfied is that he felt as if there was no other choice.
Now, it's understandable given that, you know, in a threatening situation one can't always find the time to assess all possible options, no doubt.
However, this does unfortunately create a very convenient loophole that almost calls out for any person accused of using deadly force to seek to take advantage of.
And indeed the data speak for itself.
Since the adoption of the state your ground law, and the number of defendants arguing for self defense has more than doubled.
So, by repealing state your ground, this problem isn't solved completely, however now there is an extra burden to show that you could not just retreat.
We think this definitely tilts the balance more in the right way.
In addition, we can't not address the problems that the right of self defense has created specifically for the black community.
The amount of incidents where police officers used unnecessary deadly force on black people, and the ease with which they were able to avoid punishment, you know, claiming they were defending themselves, lies at the root of the racial tensions in america today.
We believe that this proposition is a step in the right direction.
It shows our citizens that we hear them out and the like it will enable us in the long term to rebuild the lost trust in the law enforcement system.
So, it's the right thing to do and it's the smart thing to do as well.
Please propose.