So I think that government sort of ignores the elephant in the room, and that is the strong link between immigration and trumpism, populism or xenophobia in general.
Now we can argue about the contribution of immigration to the economy and so on and so forth but in our opinion, in today's political reality, immigration has turned into this hot potato that significance goes way beyond growth and employment.
This speech is going to be dedicated to explain how immigration to the united states feeds into the sort of silent rage of many people and plays into the hands of dangerous populists.
Note, all that we need to show is that immigration brings more bad than good.
This means that unlike what side government is saying, we think that the net impact of immigration to the united states brings more negative results for the state.
Now this does not necessarily mean that we are against immigration or that we wish to stop it seeing as, you know, utility to the state isn't necessarily the most important thing in the world, and there are also important moral arguments that we're not going to discuss in this debate.
Just wanted to make that clear.
So a few points of rebuttal.
First, referring to all of the economic arguments about growth and potent employees that enter the state, now we don't necessarily agree that this this is the situation.
There are plenty of immigrants that live in enclaves and, at best, work, you know, in the black, without paying taxes, because they fear that they will get caught and deported, and that is a burden on the economy.
But again, we don't want to to dive too deep into that argument.
We think that, if anything, we need to, you know, go up one level and ask is does this sort of macroeconomic policy of protectionism, which is a direct result of, among other things, excessive immigration, is that good or bad for the economy?
And in our opinion, this will prove devastating in the long run.
Referring to how immigration creates a cosmopolitan atmosphere and a cultural diversity, we think it's very easy for the previous speaker to talk about new york and los angeles, but you also have to look at what's happening in the at the rest like in the rest of the country, and there the diversity does not lead to this mutual acceptance, but rather forth it incites hatred and xenophobia.
Okay, so on to the positive.
There are a lot of attempts to explain the social and cultural and political factors that have led to the winning of donald trump in the presidency.
One of the explanations that I find particularly convincing is that there are many people in what we call the flyover states or just, you know, from families that didn't get to to enjoy financial success, and that the american dream hasn't worked as well for them as they had expected.
And they feel that they as if they've been standing in line for a very long time waiting to get to this promised success.
And all of a sudden they see that a lot of people that got there after them get to skip them in line, meaning, of course, immigrants.
This creates the sort of xenophobia and the desire to tear up the old institution that promoted others at your expense.
And that is what trump recognized and gave a face to.
We believe that trump and his populist movement are a colossal disaster for the united states economically speaking, militarily speaking, socially speaking, and in any other aspect.
And we have to recognize that had it not been for the excessive immigration to the united states, he probably would not have been able to take over the presidency and therefore, we must admit that immigration to the united states has brought more harm than good.