We should adopt mobile payments.
By mobile payments we mean various apps that allow their users to transfer money and to pay for goods and services with the click of a button and are used as a substitute for credit cards or for cash money.
So first of all just to get it off the table, we think that this is a very, very safe option.
With today's technology we can easily require your fingerprint or your eye-print or a voice recognition of some sort in order to perform a transaction.
And so, in fact, this is even a safer way to transfer money than cash or credit cards that can easily be stolen and then it basically means kissing your money goodbye.
Second of all, this saves a lot of money for consumers on credit card fees that we all know can over time accumulate to a small fortune.
Mobile payment services are way, way cheaper.
Thirdly, this helps save precious time for consumers that no longer have to wait in line for the cashier in the shop or in the movie theaters or in the supermarket or people that need to wait for the waiter to bring back their credit card in the end of the meal.
You know what they say, time is money.
So that's one hell of an advantage.
Fourthly, not like with cash or credit cards, this allows people to very conveniently keep an orderly track of their spendings which helps people conduct themselves more wisely.
We believe that very few people in the status quo, sadly, keep record on just how much they spent each month, or take a close look at their credit card reports.
Tomorrow this can all be made for them automatically and we think that that's great, it helps people.
Fifth thing to say is that this helps businesses to efficiently collect valuable information for customer profiling purposes because now, with every purchase, we can also gather data on the buyer and this helps businesses understand exactly what their target audience who their target audience is and what are their needs.
This makes the entire shopping experience more efficient in the long run.
Now crucially, all of these benefits make the purchasing experience easier and more convenient and more efficient.
And this all has a direct positive impact on growth and even unemployment because when the public enjoys shopping, they shop more.
This drives up demand and when demand goes up, supply must also go up.
Manufacturers need to produce more in order to be able to meet the rise in demand.
For this to happen, they would need to hire more workers and so on and so on.
So in this sense, mobile payments can be seen as an indirect way of quantitative easing if you will.
Lastly, I just fail to see the downsides.
I'm sure that the other team will enlighten us, but you need to keep in mind that for years people have been using credit cards and pay for goods online and so opposition will have to explain what is so different for the worse about mobile payments.
To sum it all up, this is just an extremely efficient tool and we should definitely adopted it.
Propose the motion.