We should legalize doping in sports.
To clarify, we'll stand for the legalization of performance-enhancing drugs that aren't psychoactive or addictive, namely, steroids and the likes of it.
In the first argument, we'll explain why doping is part of the natural evolution of sports.
In the second argument, we'll counter some possible opposition claims and discuss the other effects of legalization.
Let's go to the first argument.
We believe that sports is a lot like art.
The main reason we care so much about it is that it inspires us.
Professional athletes serve as an example and a reminder for what beautiful things can be achieved with talent, hard work and discipline.
Therefore, the most important quality that sports need to entail to fulfill its purpose is to, first and foremost, be thrilling and moving and fun to watch.
True enough, there are additional elements that are fundamental to sports, for example, the competition element that symbolizes a friendly rivalry.
But the competition itself also serves, eventually, the higher purpose of inspiration because it helps push the athletes themselves to their limits, and it adds more interest and emotional attachment for the audience.
It's much like music competitions like the eurovision or american idol and so on.
The competition is merely a means to make the musical show more appealing to larger audiences.
We believe that the competition alone can never cut it if the sport itself isn't enthusiastic or exciting, hence, the difference between exciting sports, like football or basketball, that are incredibly popular and sports like, say, badminton that are significantly less thrilling and as a result, less popular.
So the most valuable trade a sport needs to possess to fulfill its purpose is to be beautiful and intriguing spectacle.
Why is all of this relevant?
Because we say it's not easy to maintain a thrilled audience for very long.
People lose interest in new fashions very quickly and in order to keep up and survive the modern age short attention span, sports has to keep changing and evolving for it and for that to happen, it's imperative that new records keep getting set all the time.
No one will be interested in the olympic games if we believe that no record could possibly be beat, that the best is behind us.
Notice how people keep drawing comparisons like is lebron bigger than michael, and so on.
So now we need to ask: how is it possible that new records keep getting set all the time?
Well, it's mostly due to the technology advancements advancements.
We kept making better running shoes so usain bolt is able to outrun his predecessors, better swimwear so michael phelps can do the amazing things that he does but eventually, there is a limit to how much further technology can take us and we're nearing this limit.
Doping is exactly the thing that could take us to the next level and save sports from stagnation.
Just like computers and technology have taken over the art world, and modern artists adapted and came up with ways to embrace this change and use it to complement their art, and not replace it, the same thing needs to happen with doping in sports.
Now let's counter some classic opposition arguments.
So, some might be worried about the negative health effects that come from using these substances.
To them we say that being a professional athlete is probably one of the least healthy things that one can do choose to do, with an incredibly high risk of getting injured.
If they really are worried about the athlete's health, they might as well ban sports altogether.
Some argue that sports all that sports is all about being natural, and it's the artificialness of these drugs that defeat the purpose of sports.
To them we say that for decades now, there's been nothing natural about the way professional athletes prepare for their competitions.
They go on elaborate diets, they use all kinds of food supplements.
In fact, we urge the opposition to explain what's the difference between protein supplements and steroids.
Now some argue that the difference that the different levels of accessibility to such drugs can harm the fairness of the competition.
Well, for one thing, differences in budget are already severely harming the fairness the fairness in the status quo.
Better-funded sports clubs get better athletes, better trainers, better sports gear.
There is no way around that.
Secondly, we think that legalization, if anything, will have the opposite effect, because in the status quo many athletes still use doping illegally.
Case in point, the story of the russian delegation to the two thousand sixteen olympic games.
But some of them are able to get away with it, while others aren't.
Making it legal and accessible can help level the playing field.
For all of these reasons, please propose.